Great day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Xerium Technologies Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Thelma and I will be your coordinator for today's event.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today's presentation over to Mr.
Ted Orban Vice President and Treasurer.
Thank you Thelma and welcome to the Xerium Technologies First Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Stephen Light the CEO Chairman and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Stephen will start the discussion this morning with an update on our progress and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies' results for the quarter were announced in a press release after market closed on Wednesday May 4 2011.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
We have also posted a slide presentation on our website which we'll refer to during this conference call.
I’d also note that we will make comments today about our future expectations plans and prospects of the company that constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in yesterday’s press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today May 5 2011 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available on our press release and in other materials which are each posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Stephen.
Thanks Ted.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thanks for taking time this morning to join us for our first quarter 2011 investor call.
Along with Ted it is my pleasure to introduce Cliff Pietrafitta who has joined Xerium as our Chief Financial Officer in early March.
Cliff comes to us after we conducted a lengthy executive search process.
The search took much longer than I expected but I was looking for a person with just the right combination of experience skills energy and focus.
In Cliff we secured a person with an appropriate public company background who's focused on operational and cost management aligned very well with our strategy of competing globally on a product and operational basis.
We're happy to have him with us today.
Today he and I will share reporting duties on the call with Cliff providing added insight into the financial charts we posted to our website last night.
But first I'll describe our market conditions and update you on several key initiatives.
Our markets remain generally healthy throughout the first quarter with paper production tonnage increasing approximately 2.3% based upon the latest data we have.
Within that 2.3% increase the largest segment Graphical Paper saw production tonnage increase 1/2 of 1% packaging increased 3.8% and sanitary and household papers increased 0.4%.
Whole production increased a healthy 3.9% over prior year period.
These increases are inline with our expectations of GDP to GDP plus 1% growth.
Our order bookings as shown on Slide 3 of the posted charts show Q1 2011 increased over Q1 2010 consolidated bookings by 2.9%.
Sequentially Q1 2011 increased over Q4 2010 by 8.8%.
We need to examine the segments to get a clearer picture of the order intake.
Within the segments rolls orders shown on Slide 4 increased 16.7% over Q1 2010 but only 2% over Q4 2010.
This modest sequential growth supports our belief that at year end we pulled roll cover  orders forward into the fourth quarter as the year wound down and maintenance team spent the remainder of their CapEx budget.
In the Clothing segment shown on Slide 5 we received orders in Q1 2011 of $101.4 million.
Sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 we did see healthy growth in PMC orders of 12.8%.
You will recall that in Q1 2010 the paper industry was busy rebuilding their Paper Machine Clothing inventories having drawn them down nearly 27% from their peak in November 2008.
These inventories remained stable at approximately 85% of that peak number -- I'm sorry 85% of the January 2007 number.
It appears to us that as market conditions stabilize we'll see fewer of the exaggerated swings we've seen in 2010 and the beginning of 2011.
Meanwhile our production backlogs are very healthy in most geographies and in most product areas.
We continue on our strategy to introduce our new products to the market shown on Slide 6 and are enjoying considerable success as you see.
Our first quarter results show new products defined as products introduced since the beginning of 2008 increasing to 44.6% of overall sales.
Within this increase the Clothing segment achieved 48.6% of revenue from new products while the Rolls segment achieved 36.9%.
I'm pleased to announce that in February SmartRoll our proprietary cross machine pressure sensing cover system received its 100th order since commercial launch in the spring of 2009.
And that we're seeing increasing interest in the product as it has clearly proven its worth to the papermakers.
We've recently begun offering the next version of the system.
This one capable of providing the proven performance to machines with dual knit press sections.
We believe this new system expands our target market beyond the 3 500 rolls we initially focused upon.
SmartRoll has also recorded its first order outside of the paper industry.
Not wanting to be outdone by the Clothing new product teams' head start in 2010 our Rolls new product teams have developed several other products that are currently being introduced commercially.
New roll products have been developed for the rapidly growing tissue market including covers we've branded as Rebel Hyperpress X and Xtreme TS.
Each of these is a product designed for a specific application unique to tissue manufacturing where higher process temperatures and lower sheet heat transfer shorten the life of conventional rubber covers.
In the case of the Rebel cover which we're now offering in 3 of our 4 regions a unique formulation of urethane is applied to the roll to minimize abrasion and keep the cover cool.
Sales of these 3 covers have already reached 96 units since their introduction a few months ago.
Our most recent review identified more than 925 active tissue machines worldwide.
So we believe the market opportunities for these products are healthy.
Moving now to a few remarks about operations.
We've made good progress during the quarter in our program to increase our Paper Machine Clothing capacity with the goal of reducing book-to-bill cycle times  to 50% of today's levels in specific product ranges.
To this purpose key pieces of equipment are now starting into production in Brazil and Austria.
Specifically we have doubled our South American press felt production capacity as measured by tons of product produced in order to support expanded demand for the newest products in Asia and we've upgraded existing weaving capability in our Austrian press felt plant to support increased output from that facility as well.
Simultaneously we increased our forming fabric capacity in Canada for the North American market with new and upgraded weave lengths.
These installations and those that remain underway for 2011 completion are expected to complete the equipment purchase obligation that carried over from the canceled Vietnam project.
The new equipment we've brought online is faster capable of producing all of our new products and very importantly properly sized to the width of our customer's paper machines in order to reduce waste.
As our raw material price has steadily increased since oil prices escalated the material yield of our production processes has become even more critical to our ability to offset rising yarn costs.
Our new product designs which not only help customers' increase output or reduce their production costs are doing the same for us.
Over the past 3 years our operations and engineering teams have been able to increase the percentage of raw material that is ultimately delivered as a product to our customers from a low of 53% in 2008 to more than 70% currently in our dryer product line.
That's a 32% improvement.
Major contributors to this improvement are our use of sophisticated statistical models to advise us how to narrow our existing looms to better match our customers' machines meticulous care in scheduling these machine and the netting of our weaving capability across our divisions in order to optimize production.
In some instances we now have as many as 5 looms making the same products at widths ranging from 8 to 12 meters in increments of just one meter.
Where 3 years ago these looms would have been making 5 different products each greater than 12 meters wide and very high trim loss rates.
As we roll out other new PMC products through our forming product line we are seeing comparable gains in yield.
These improvement served to reduce the amount of expensive yarns we need to purchase while at the same time increasing our capacity without significant additional CapEx investment.
As we work to offset the rise in petroleum prices through productivity we've also been aggressive in passing along wherever we're able a share of this rising cost to our customers.
In 2008 faced with a similar situation the company added an energy surcharge to our invoices as we viewed that spike in energy price as temporary.
We're evaluating the likelihood of the current increase will be a similar spike or a more protracted irreversible rise and we'll consider appropriate actions that may affect product pricing as our analysis indicates.
Now I'll pass the microphone over to Cliff who will guide us through the posted slides.
Thank you Stephen.
I'd like to start off by referring to the chart on Page 7.
Sales for the quarter increased 6.1% to $143.2 million from $135 million in the first quarter of 2010.
When adjusted for exchange rate differences sales grew at 5.1% compared to the same quarter in the prior year.
This 5.1% increase was comprised of Clothing growth of 4.7% and Rolls growth of 5.8%.
The rebound in paper production has helped drive volume growth in both our Clothing and Rolls businesses.
On a sequential basis compared to the fourth quarter net sales were down 1% on a gross basis and 1.8% excluding the impact of currency compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
We view this as strong performance given the significant sales increase in the fourth quarter of 2010 a portion of which related to our customers' consuming annual budgeted maintenance and capital spending allotments by pulling ahead their purchases from the beginning of 2011.
Gross margin dollars improved 4.3% to $53.9 million from $51.7 million in the first quarter of 2011 primarily as a result of increased sales volume.
As a percentage of net sales gross margins declined to 37.7% from 38.3% in the prior year's first quarter and 40.3% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
The percentage declined from both periods was primarily attributable to an increased mix of lower margin clothing and roll products and services as well as increased material and freight cost related to higher cost petroleum-based materials.
We do not expect the mix of our products in 2011 to be materially different than it was in 2010.
So our focus in this area will be on raw material cost and pricing.
Moving on to the chart on Page 8.
Our selling general and administrative expense excluding operational and financial restructuring costs decreased from 28.4% of net sales in the first quarter of 2010 to 27.9% of net sales in the current quarter.
This decline was largely the result of one-time compensation cost incurred in the first quarter of 2010 net of an increase in salaries and bad debt expense which resulted from a change in estimate in the first quarter of 2010.
If we look at our spending as a percentage of net sales compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 spending increased from 25.1% to 27.9%.
This increase primarily reflects a one-time gain related to the sale of property that reduced fourth quarter 2010 SG&amp;A and the impact of higher foreign currency rates in the first quarter of 2011.
Income from operations increased 475% to $13.8 million from $2.4 million in the first quarter of 2010 largely due to increased sales volume and the absence of financial restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of 2010 net of reduced gross margins due to unfavorable product mix.
Page 9 of the slide displays our adjusted EBITDA result for the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides a measure of the operating performance of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA increased 6.5% to $26.1 million from $24.5 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Excluding unfavorable currency adjustments our adjusted EBITDA grew 7.3% which was higher than our net sales growth of 5.1%.
Our last 12 month adjusted EBITDA reached $115.8 million as of March 31 2011.
This decline from the fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA result of $35.3 million is largely due to lower margins primarily as a result of product mix and the fourth quarter of 2010 gain on the sale of the property in South America.
Income taxes as a percentage of pretax income was 84% for the first quarter of 2011.
At this time we expect our overall effective tax rate for the year should be in the mid-40% range.
You should recognize that the mix of earnings by jurisdiction has a direct impact on the amount of taxes recorded in any quarter our effective tax rate reflects the fact that we continue to have losses in certain jurisdictions for which we receive no tax benefit.
Net income and earnings per share improved from a net loss of $30.2 million or $12.05 per share for the first quarter of 2010 to net income of $0.6 million or $0.04 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
The significant improvement is primarily due to increased sales volume the absence of financial restructuring costs incurred in the first quarter of 2010 and lower interest expense net of reduced gross margins due to unfavorable product mix.
In addition to the improved earnings the denominator of the EPS calculation also changed as our diluted shares outstanding increased from 2.5 million shares to 16.6 million shares due to the restructuring that took place in May 2010.
Pricing data as depicted on Page 10 continues to show a stable pricing environment.
Due to the consistent stability we have seen in the market pricing over the last year and the recognition that our future pricing actions could be competitively sensitive we will discontinue presenting this chart in future calls.
The data included on the chart on Page 11 shows an increase in trade working capital as a percentage of net sales from the fourth quarter of 2010 from 24.6% to 27.7%.
Currency changes accounted for 0.6% of this increase while the remaining increase was due to increased accounts receivable and inventory balances and lower accounts payable.
Taking these issues one at a time the growth in accounts receivable relates to the timing of sales in the quarter as very weak January sales volume was made up by robust sales volume in March.
As such our days sales outstanding computed on a FIFO basis of 57 days was in line with the fourth quarter of 2010 result of 57 days and slightly above the first quarter 2010 result of 55 days.
Next inventory levels were negatively impacted by our need to accelerate press felt production to accommodate demand requirements increase purchasing of yarns in advance of expected petroleum-based cost increases and increased levels of in transit inventories supporting increasing Asian demand.
Finally accounts payable increased 25% from the first quarter of 2010 but declined from the fourth quarter of 2010 by 9%.
Similarly our days payable outstanding improved over the same quarter last year from 58 days to 64 days but pulled back from the 70 days in the fourth quarter 2010.
This unfavorable result compared to the prior quarter was due to large payments which were scheduled to be made just after the 2010 year end.
The net result of the increase in trade working capital is that our trapped cash defined as trade working capital in excess of 15% of sales increased by $14.9 million to $61.6 million in the first quarter of 2011 from $46.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We believe the underlying reasons for this unfavorable result are temporary and we will redouble our efforts to reduce our investment in the balance sheet and improve cash flow in future quarters.
Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.2 million which is above last year's first quarter spending of $2.5 million.
As shown on the chart on Page 12 we still expect capital expenditures for 2011 to approximate $32 million with roughly 1/2 of that earmarked for maintenance projects.
Moving to Page 13 of the slide deck.
We show our total debt of $488 million expressed at the foreign exchange rates as of March 31 2011.
Our debt reported on this constant currency basis shows a reduction of total debt of $4.2 million which was due to principal payments during the quarter.
In closing my remarks I would like to bring you up-to-date on the status of our potential refinancing.
Currently the company's capital structure includes a $20 million revolver a $60 million first-lien term loan and a $410 million second-lien term loan.
The revolver matures in May 2014.
The first-lien term loan matures in November 2014 and the second-lien term loan matures in May 2015.
We announced yesterday that we are pursuing a potential refinancing of our existing credit facilities.
Our goal in seeking to refinance is to extend the maturity and fix the rate on a portion of our debt while providing increased flexibility and liquidity to the company.
While the lower-rate environment may provide ongoing cash interest savings the amortization of transaction fees will likely offset any EPS benefit.
We are targeting to complete a refinancing by the end of the month.
However it is possible that we may not be able to complete the proposed transactions on terms that are acceptable to us on this timetable or at all.
We will not be able to take questions regarding the proposed financing on this call.
For information regarding the proposed financing please refer to our press release from yesterday evening.
Thanks Cliff.
During our earnings call in March I was asked if we should -- if investors could extrapolate last year's Q4 performance forward into 2011.
I responded to that inquiry by indicating that while we continue to execute to our plan I did not expect quarter-over-quarter performance to be linear.
And that there would be variation around an improving trend line.
In Q1 we witnessed some of this occurring as raw material prices and currencies combined to offset some of the improvements we've implemented.
We're confident we're on the proper operational path and we'll remain steadfast on our implementation process as we continue to make good progress on this journey.
Finally just before we begin to take your questions I'd like to make a few comments about our addition of a new Director to the Xerium Board of Directors.
David Bloss joins us for the particularly-strong background in operations mergers and acquisitions and business management in Asia.
These are clearly skills that will benefit the company going forward and the board's governance processes.
We're honored to have a person of David's caliber join us and I look forward to working with him.
Now we've completed our prepared remarks so Cliff and I are ready to address your questions.
Thelma may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kevin Cohen with Imperial Capital.
Stephen I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about the pricing environment in the industry? And is it your sense  that the industry is behaving well in terms of pushing price with all these cost pressures? Or what do you kind of seeing here to date on that front? Kevin without providing specific details we think the pricing environment continues to be very good for the Paper Machine Clothing and Roll Cover operations.
We have been successful in increasing prices with many of our customers.
It is one of the reasons as Cliff indicated we're not going to continue to show the pricing chart.
We don't think it's appropriate to enable our competition to extrapolate exactly what we're doing on pricing but we're in an environment where our customers are passing on their price increases pretty rapidly and it's pretty difficult for a customer of ours who's getting significant value from our products to deny us price increases comparable to what they're seeing.
We are as some of you may know our long-term supply agreements with our oil-based suppliers.
The particular material is called caprolactam it's a distillate of oil from which most of the yarns are made we have some price sharing or cost sharing ratios inside those contracts.
Some of them are very recently renegotiated so those pricing triggers are becoming engaged.
Part of the reason you saw our inventory rise in the first quarter was our recognition of this situation so we chose to purchase ahead on our yarns.
So we have more yarn either in-house or on order at this time than we would normally have for this level of production.
A long answer to the question of I think that the market is responding maturely to the escalating cost structure and I believe that we will be successful in passing along some probably not all but at least some of the cost increases that we're absorbing.
And do the customers seem to understand the need for price increases related to cost? I mean is the marketplace acceptance of price increases sort of tracking in line with what you would have thought it would be? Or any changes anything notable on that front? I think the -- I'd reiterate the expression that I think the pricing environment is quite mature.
At this point we're not aware of any competitor doing anything on a rouge basis.
But I will bring you back to something we have worked very hard on for the last couple of years and that is to transition from selling our products as a commodity to selling our product based on the value that we deliver.
And we have documented savings from customers that far exceed their purchase cost of our products.
So we think that given that ratio or even a breakeven ratio on savings it's pretty difficult for a customer to deny us the cost increases that we're absorbing while we're helping them very significantly to reduce their cost.
The new products that we've talked about over the last several months or several quarters EnerStar which has a very direct relationship to the energy cost involved in running a machine is an area that we're pressing now that customers are accepting.
You'll recall that EnerStar yarns proprietary yarns that we have are available in almost all of our Forming Fabrics.
SmartRoll acceptance is far beyond our expectations.
And one of the reasons there is of course that the more uniform the sheet of paper going into the dryer the lower the cost  in the dryer.
Keeping in mind that energy is the number 2 cost for paper producers behind fiber.
I think that our products are justifying their value and the customers are paying for it.
And then in terms of the raw material cost inflation would you say that oil is probably the biggest pressure that the company saw on the first quarter? And I guess the corollary to that when do you think the company might decide in terms of how to recoup whether it's through a surcharge mechanism or otherwise? When do you think we might see some clarity on that front emerge? Well I think I can answer the second part first and that is that you won't.
We're not going to put out broad announcements.
We don't use a price -- a published price list.
We negotiate contracts individually with customers based on the value that we deliver.
So we're not going to come out and say we've implemented a 4.5% or a 9% or a 1% price increase if that were the case.
We think that the relationship between the company and its customers is of course proprietary and should remain that way.
To the first part of the question the impact of oil pricing on yarn and oil is the largest driver of yarn pricing there's a very tight relationship there.
I can't tell you whether it's a 75% or an 85% correlation but it's very much in that band depending on who the supplier is and what the specific raw material or yarn formulation is that we're buying.
But oil drives about 2/3 of our business it drives the Clothing business.
The other place that we're seeing raw material cost escalation is in natural rubber which of course drives a big piece of our Roll Cover business.
In both places we're under pressure.
We're under pressure from our suppliers but as Cliff aptly pointed out we're also under pressure in the fact that freight is rising as an element of our cost structure.
So we are working much more diligently to go to full container loads as we go offshore as opposed to LPL we are certainly minimizing airfreight.
One of the drivers of airfreight is our long lead times.
The long lead times are the result of high backlogs.
The high backlogs are the result of demand beyond our capacity.
Ergo in a great circle why we are installing so much new equipment in South America to satisfy demand.
And to put a closer on that much of that equipment is in and running.
We will have our South American facility at our peak estimated capacity by the end of the year at which point we will have increased our South American capacity by more than double.
And then just one last question before turning it over.
In terms of the sensitivity to oil I think the company has disclosed a $10 for barrel change it's about a $1.5 million annualized delta.
Does that include all of the related effects of oil or is that just tied to distribution? Like does that include the knock-on effects on yarn to your point and other related items? I'm not sure where that number came from.
I can't confirm or refute that number.
What I can tell you is that oil is the primary driver of yarn raw material pricing.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Hoss with Roth Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> Even if we could just continue on the gross margin discussion and looking back in '08 as you mentioned earlier in your prepared remarks the dynamics were 40.4% down to 33% and then the following quarter looks to be the fourth quarter of '08 back up to 39%.
Now you said that there were fuel surcharges that were passed on and that's something that you're currently evaluating today.
Can we expect to see a rapid recovery obviously not the same delta but the same acceleration of recovery? Should those price increases be put forth or are there different dynamics this time around? Well I think as Cliff indicated in his remarks the gross margin impact is driven by several things.
One of which was an unusual combination of mix between Roll Covers Clothing particular kinds of clothing and mechanical service work that we do in the Rolls business.
We reconfirmed that we see no fundamental shift in the business in terms of mix that would change materially how we would expect to perform between 2010 and 2011.
The one slight change is that our Asian businesses are doing quite well as growth in paper tonnage in Asia is faster than other regions of the world.
So as more weight moves to Asia as you know that is a lower margin environment for everyone we've modeled that.
We don't think it's going to materially impact the full-year result.
But mix certainly does drive gross margin.
I don't think that going to the question of how fast you'll see price impact our pricing impact to gross margin.
We're probably not going to telegraph any more about changes that we anticipate in pricing than what we already have.
It's not our intent to use the forum as a way to give our competitors insight as to what our thinking is.
But I'll take you back to we believe that the value of our products as assessed by our customers is rising.
We believe they understand that.
Based on documents they're giving us that that support the amount of costs we're helping them with and I don't think that they are --  they have certainly not demonstrated a reluctance to accept what is fair pricing from us.
LLC</strong> And then the assumption that more contributions from new products gives you additional opportunities for selling value versus price does that still hold true? Absolutely.
Let me give you a specific example.
I indicated that we had sold our or accepted an order back in February for our 100th SmartRoll.
That product had been in commercial availability at that point just over a year and a half.
When we launched the SmartRoll we anticipated one SmartRoll for every 2 major machines and we think of the world as we've said publicly something north of 6 300 or 6 288 paper machines.
So we rounded that up and said that we thought 3 500 was the number of potential applications given one SmartRoll for every 2 machines.
We have customers today running multiple SmartRolls in their machines while the machine was designed specifically for the nip.
We've got customers running it at the winder in the calender stack in the nip in multiple nips.
In fact we have one customer who now has 4 SmartRolls in one machine.
So we believe that the new product expansion that SmartRoll epitomizes is very real.
And customers are paying higher prices but getting greater value.
And that remains the premise of our argument.
Is that the better the product performs the more the customer value derived the more our share of that value we can derive.
I don't see anything that's changing that dynamic.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the sequential jump in G&amp;A.
I'm assuming partially is derived from the additional capacity that you discussed earlier from the headcount I think I read in the 10-Q.
Are you done adding at this point and can we view this as a level that should sustain itself throughout the remainder of '11 assuming revenue and stability? But one comment before I get to final part of that question we had a $1.4 million nonrecurring gain in the fourth quarter which artificially suppressed SG&amp;A that was from the sale of property in South America.
We don't have any more property to sell in South America so you can't look forward to one of those.
I will remain steadfast in the concept that we won't provide guidance looking forward.
We will flux our direct labor workforce which is really where headcount has been adjusted.
We'll adjust our direct labor workforce to support customer demand.
We are operating our plants our clothing plants at very high capacity utilizations right now.
I would be delighted to tell you I am delighted to tell you that our Nova Scotia factory has set production records the last 2 months in a row.
Levels that it's never achieved previously.
So to support that we have added some headcount.
We've also added equipment as we've spoken about.
So headcount isn't -- it's not a fixed number.
It's not something we're going to carve in stone because we're going to flux up and down as demand backlog and our productivity indicates.
LLC</strong> Okay then last question.
Interest expense more modeling perspective I think that in 2010 you had an accelerated amortization I think $2.5 million fee  per quarter and you had talked about how this went away and so we saw this appear in the first quarter.
However there has been the difference in your investor presentation about a $46-million-per-year type of interest expense.
I'm just trying to figure out what's the appropriate number? The number referenced in the investor presentation is a debt service number which includes principal repayments.
We're not prepared to make very many comments about why we're out doing what we're doing but obviously that debt markets today are very favorable.
The company is coming out to do refinancings and that's the reason we're evaluating.
As Cliff indicated if the process goes forward we would hope to have it completed yet this month so there'd be quite a lot to say about it here fairly shortly.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from DeForest Hinman with Walthausen &amp; Co.
Stephen it looks like we had some improvement on the sales year-over-year and you talked about gross margins declining.
But could you kind of just walk us through the pieces that were helping us and the pieces that were hurting us and can you put some more color around that from a basis point perspective either -- I'll just start there.
This is Cliff Pietrafitta.
From a margin standpoint what we saw was really just a mix issue between the various products that we offer in the market.
When we looked at it we didn't really feel like it was an indication of a trend but more just kind of an event in the quarter that we would expect the full year to kind of resemble what we've seen in the past.
So as we said earlier in the comments we kind of view this as kind of a one-off from that particular standpoint.
Okay.
Well I mean can you even put a little bit more color around the unfavorable mix then because I think the commentary on the last few calls and also evidenced in the margin was that as we had a higher mix of new product sales those were from what it sounded like similar to corporate average or a little bit better.
So as our mix of new products increase we should see some incremental margin improvement.
And now in the first quarter we have continued mix improvement towards newer products but at the same time we have sequential decline in gross margins.
So can you kind of help me reconcile that? Sure.
I can point to an example which is on a roll side of our business we offer mechanical services as one of the product lines that we offer to our customers.
That particular piece of the business was a larger mix of our sales in the quarter.
Those services tend to be lower margin that's one example of the type of things we were talking about.
Okay.
So I guess then on the PMC side of the business were the gross margins up year-over-year in that business? No.
We had similar types of examples there where we have in our business certain of the fabrics carry higher margins.
We saw a slight shift there between the different categories.
Again we don't think that's a trend.
We just think it was a blip in the order for this particular quarter.
So we're not concerned about it long-term but we do recognize that those certain particular product lines within  Clothing had improved sales during the quarter which hurt the margins overall.
All right.
And you gave some color around yarn costs and one of these chemicals that's involved can you kind of talk about what was the actual either dollar increase or percent increase or both of those for the yarn? And kind of what -- if prices are stable I guess where they are now what kind of percent increase could we be looking at for the full year either on a percent basis or a dollar basis or both? DeForest we think that's competitively sensitive information and we're not going to disclose that.
All right.
Can you help us understand then how much of your cost of goods sold is yarn costs? We've said publicly that in the aggregate material costs are 40% of our cost of goods sold labor's about 20% and overhead's about 40%.
Within the raw materials side yarn and rubber are the primary drivers well north of 50% of it.
Our next question comes from Matt Sherwood with Cooper Creek.
I just wanted to see if you could remind  us about the impact of the euro on sales and earnings? I know that was a material driver of differences between disclosure statement in EBITDA and your current projections? Matt we have used a metric of $300 000 of adjusted EBITDA per $0.01 of exchange rate swing and most people want to track that back to the plan of reorganization.The plan of reorganization euro exchange rate was $1.46 and we're awfully close to that today.
If that's how you're trying to benchmark the company.
As Ted indicated in his opening remarks we make no -- or accept no obligation to update that but it may be helpful to know that roughly the same euro exchange rate was used in the fall of '09 when the POR was created to what we're seeing today.
And how does your incentive compensation affect the planning? How is that tied to the planned projections? The way that operates and I'm pretty sure that's disclosed in our plans so I'm okay talking about it.
The way that operates is that at the beginning of the year we budget the company with an assumed set of exchange rates and we true-up at the end of the year back to those exchange rates for purposes of determining financial performance against the annual metric.
For the long-term incentive plan which is the 3-year plan we true-up currency regardless of how we budget it we true-up currency back to the exchange rates that were used at the time the plan was formalized or consummated.
At this time that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you Thelma.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much.
We look forward to having our second quarter call with you which will occur in August or at the end of July.
Certainly have appreciated Cliff participating.
He's been able to take some of the hard questions from me and provide you more color.
We look forward to giving you an update on any refinancing that might go forward should that progress as events warrant.
Thank you very much and goodbye.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You are free to disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Xerium Technologies Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call on August 10 2011.
[Operator Instructions] I would now hand the call over to Mr.
Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please proceed.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Stephen Light the CEO Chairman and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Stephen will start the discussion this morning with an update on our progress and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were announced in a press release after market closed on Monday August 8 2011.
Notification of this call was broadly [ph] disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
We have also posted a slide presentation on our website which we'll refer to during this conference call.
I’d also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company that constitute forward-looking statements for the purpose of the Safe Harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our views as of today August 10 2011 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in a better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available on our press release and in other materials which are each posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Stephen.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Xerium made good progress in the second quarter.
I'm pleased with our rate of growth and our improvement.
Of course we have challenges today and certainly more coming as a result of the unstable economy which our largest customer described as moving "sideways" in a recent earnings call.
Xerium's year-to-date bookings are favorable 1.2% when compared to the same period of 2010.
Consolidated Q2 bookings compared to the prior year period remained essentially constant just 0.5% lower primarily as a result of lower bookings in Paper Machine Clothing partially offset by very strong roll bookings.
The improved roll cover bookings show a significant increase of 17.4% over a rather slow Q2 2010 and 17.1% year-to-date 2011 versus 2010.
In the second quarter of 2011 very strong roll covers segment bookings were recorded in North America and Asia with North America up 12.2% year-to-date and Asia far more than that.
In fact all regions are positive in year-to-date roll bookings.
We believe the majority of this increase in bookings is coming from our new products which I'll speak to shortly and from pent-up demand at the mills where it seems that CapEx is one of the first uses of cash that gets toggled up or down depending on short-interval market conditions.
The situation in Paper Machine Clothing is quite different.
Here a year-to-date decline in bookings of 6.2% is a result of 2 factors.
We believe the first major recent Paper Machine Clothing bookings have decreased year-to-date is that inventories of all grades of PMC held by customers have recovered to between 90% and 95% of their January 2007 levels and 70% of their unsustainable peak levels in late 2008.
While these inventory numbers are averages across industry some customers have replenished more fully than others and some have learned how to operate with less inventory.
So we believe it is not possible to identify an overall sustainable inventory reduction trend.
Meanwhile our PMC backlogs have remained quite strong and the plants are very busy while we work to increase our production capacity.
In fact the increase in demand has caused us to increase our production at our Australian press felt facility throughout the remainder of this year and well into 2012.
The second reason we believe our bookings appear to have softened slightly is our backlogs are stronger than ever and our production lead times are longer than we or our customers want them to be.
This situation is primarily in the press felt product line where we've enjoyed excellent demand for our new products.
As a result even as we work to manage customer demand and retain customer loyalty we are investing a large portion of this year's CapEx in new manufacturing equipment.
Some of this new equipment is already up and running in Brazil and Austria and our output has increased substantially.
In addition more new equipment is planned to start up in the fourth quarter of 2011.
By this time next year we are targeting having increased our press felt capacity by more than 34% since January 2010.
The next chart in the slides that we have posted on our website Slide #6 displays our new product net sales as a percent of total net sales.
You may recall that in late 2008 we launched our strategy to revamp our product line by introducing new products that our customers value.
At that time we established a goal of 60% of net sales to be derived from new products developed in the prior 5 year.
In 2008 that appeared to be a true stretched goal as we had neither the product plans the technology nor the focused product development methodology to develop the new products we needed.
But we believed it was critical to the competitiveness of the company to take on this challenge.
Slide 6 shows that we continue to make excellent progress towards reaching that 60% goal in both our roll cover and PMC businesses.
With roll covers at nearly 42% and PMC at 51% we're quite confident that our goal is attainable.
As I've discussed this strategy with investors at conferences I've been asked how the new products fit into both the customers' world and into ours.
As a result this quarter we've included Slide #7 which graphically displays how we think about the process used in this important initiative.
We've segmented our new product initiatives into 4 categories: The first innovation products are products that embody breakthrough technologies.
These products are generally patented to protect their intellectual property and provide customers with unique advantages that we believe are not currently available in any competitors offering.
A good example of this is the SmartRoll product we've discussed many times.
I'm pleased to tell you that as of July 140 SmartRolls have been ordered since its commercial launch in 2009 and its very strong backlog exist.
For those who are on the Q1 call you may recall that we announced our 100th booking.
So since that time we've had 40 orders.
That run rate is frankly what we expected and we see no reason to think it's going to slow down.
SmartRolls are now operating in every major paper segment from tissue to graphical papers.
Approximately 29% of our new product sales are coming from the innovation products category.
Our second category performance products contributed 43% of new product net sales and consist of products which are delivering higher levels of performance as compared to our prior product offering for the same application.
This higher performance may consist of such things as longer life improved sheet quality improved drainage or ease of installation.
A new product example in this category is our ultra light spreader roll which we recently introduced and is adding to our new product roll sales.
This device is used to prevent wrinkles from forming in clothing in the PMC as it runs in the paper machine.
It is self-lubricating and offers the customer worry-free operation for much longer than conventional and much less expensive alternatives.
Customers appear willing to pay a higher price for this new design to enjoy this superior performance.
And as a result sales adoption of the new spreader roll has been excellent and is contributing significantly to the performance products segment.
Our third category which we've named rationalization products consist of new products where we've harmonized the designs we produce across our various factories.
For example our South American plant and our North American forming fabric plant are making the same product enabling us to improve productivity and yield by more precisely weaving the customer ordered fabric width.
In addition in the roll segment we've reduced the many hundreds of different formulations of rubbers and polyurethane covers to a smaller and more manageable amount.
This was the new product area in which we began our work back in 2008.
And the results are evident in our dryer fabrics where production yields have risen from the low 50% range to greater than 70% directly contributing to our bottom line.
Our ProSeam press felt products are included in this category as well as we have figured out a way -- let me do that again I'm sorry.
Our ProSeam press felt products are included in this category.
With this product we have figured out a way to install what the industry calls an endless felt without dismantling the side of the paper machine.
Savings come from reduced paper machine downtime and a reduction of safety risk during installation.
Generally the customers are unaffected by the activities we take in this category of product change.
Finally we've been developing products for the non-paper market our fourth new product introduction area where we feel our product technologies allow us to offer new products to new customers that create substantially more value than the applications they currently employ.
An example of this type of product are fabrics used in the production of fiber cement siding and shingles for construction purposes.
While today this initiative has only contributed 2% of our new product net sales we believe it promises to be a contributor as time and future investment allow.
I hope this expanded explanation of our new product strategy helps investors understand the cause-and-effect relationship related to the performance that's been demonstrated on our new product net sales slide these past many quarters.
With that I'll turn the call over the Cliff for his remarks on our financial performance.
Thank you Stephen.
I'd like to start off by referring to the sales chart on Page 8 of the slides.
Sales for the quarter increased 13.3% to $150.4 million from $132.8 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate differences sales increased 6.2%.
This growth was comprised of 4.6% growth in our clothing business and 9.3% growth in our rolls business.
On a year-to-date basis sales increased 9.6% or 5.6% on a constant currency basis.
On the same constant currency basis clothing sales grew 4.6% while rolls improved 7.4% for the year-to-date period.
On a sequential basis sales improved 5% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Gross margin dollars improved 12% largely as a result of increased sales volume and favorable currency exchange differences.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined to 38.5% of sales from 38.9% of sales in the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding foreign currency effects the gross margin rate remained flat at 38.9%.
Higher sales growth of lower margin product lines and increased material on freight expense related to the higher cost of rubber and petroleum were offset by reduced inventory reserve provisioning caused by improved recoveries on aged [ph] inventories.
Compared to the first quarter of 2011 gross margin dollars improved 7.4% while gross margin as a percentage of sales increased from 37.7% to 38.5% largely as a result of the reduction in inventory reserves previously mentioned.
On a year-to-date basis compared to the first half of 2010 gross margins excluding the impact of currency differences decreased from 38.6% to 38.4%.
Increased sales growth in regions and product lines with lower gross margins increased raw material costs in our rolls business and unfavorable freight depreciation and repairs and maintenance expense were largely offset by the reversal of obsolescence reserves and manufacturing efficiencies in our clothing operations.
At this time I would like to clarify the sales mix issues that we've experienced in the first half of 2011 compared to the first half of 2010.
Regional sales mix is unfavorable due to the increase in lower margin sales in Asia compared to other parts of the world as all areas experienced growth but Asia grew faster.
The unfavorable product line mix within clothing relates primarily to the relative mix of sales between the various types of clothing such as forming fabrics press felts and dryer fabrics where once again all products saw increasing sales but press felts where margins are slightly lower grew faster.
The unfavorable product line mix within to our rolls business relates to a higher proportion of lower margin mechanical services compared to roll cover sales.
As we have communicated in the past customers had begun to ask us to perform full roll rebuilding as a one-stop shop rather than just complete the roll recovering.
Moving on to the chart on Slide 9.
Selling general and administrative expenses excluding operational and financial restructuring costs increased 3.1% to $39.6 million from $38.4 million.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A improved to 26.3% from 28.6% in the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange differences SG&amp;A expenses declined 4.7% as a result of the reversal of an accrual for VAT taxes in Brazil related to a favorable tax ruling decreased stock compensation expense and lower legal insurance and consulting costs.
These decreased costs were somewhat offset by expenses related to increased sales commissions on higher sales volume and increased bad debt expense.
Income from operations improved in the second quarter of 2011 by 65% to $17.7 million from $10.7 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange differences income from operations improved 68% and 147% for the quarter and 6 months ended June 30 2011.
Interest expense declined 40.8% to $10 million in the second quarter of 2011 from $16.9 million in the second quarter of 2010.
This decline reflects lower debt balances and interest rates lower deferred financing cost amortization and the amortization of interest rate swap costs in 2010.
In addition the company incurred a $2.9 million write-off of deferred financing costs in connection with our debt refinancing completed in May 2011.
As I will cover later in the conference call management expects total interest expense to be lower going forward due to the impact of the refinancing.
Income taxes as a percentage of pretax income were 65% in the second quarter 2011 and 74% on a year-to-date basis.
Excluding the impact of the loss on extinguishment of debt related to the refinancing the effective tax rate would've been 43% and 57% for the quarter and year-to-date periods respectively.
Our overall effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit.
Net income and diluted earnings per share improved to $1.6 million or $0.11 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011 from a loss of $40 million or $5.38 in the second quarter of 2010.
On a year-to-date basis net income improved to $2.3 million or $0.15 per diluted share from a loss of $70.2 million or $14.7 per diluted share for the comparable 6-month periods ended June 30 2011 and 2010.
As previously mentioned the results for the second quarter include a loss on the extinguishment of debt which decreased net income by $2.7 million or $0.18 per share.
Page 10 of our slide deck displays our adjusted EBITDA result for the second quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP measure which we manage in compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides a measure of the operating performance of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2011 increased by 19.8% to $30.2 million from $25.2 million in the second quarter of 2010.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted EBITDA improved 13.3% to $56.3 million from $49.7 million year-over-year.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange differences adjusted EBITDA improved 14.7% and 11.2% for the quarter and 6 months ended June 30 2011.
The data on Slide 11 shows an increase in trade working capital for the first quarter of 2011 from 27.7% of sales to 27.9% of sales.
This slight increase is primarily related to higher inventory levels.
While we have made some progress in reducing base levels of materials during the second quarter the reduction of obsolescence reserves; inventory build to cover sales during planned summer vacation plant shutdowns; roll inventory build for OEM business which is scheduled to shift in the third quarter and increased demand in our Asian business which requires longer lead times have combined to yield a slightly elevated unfavorable result compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Inventory related to our first quarter initiative to purchase petroleum-based materials in advance of scheduled price increases is beginning to unwind but these inventories are still above pre-2011 levels.
The reduction in the obsolescence reserve and the impact of Asian lead times will be continuing issues as we work to reduce our inventories while the inventory build related to purchasing petroleum-based raw materials in advance of scheduled price increases planned summer plant shutdowns and OEM inventory should mostly unwind in the third quarter.
Looking back to the fourth quarter of 2010 trade working capital increased from 24.6% of sales to 27.9% of sales as a result of a weakened U.S.
dollar.
The increased inventory levels we just reviewed and large vendor payments which were made just after year end and provided an unsustainable increase to our accounts payable balance at December 31 2010.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period totaled $12 million.
As shown on Slide 12 we still expect full year capital expenditures to approximate $32 million with roughly half of that spending earmarked for maintenance projects.
As many of you know we successfully completed a refinancing of the business in May of this year by replacing the company's existing debt with a $30 million revolver expiring in May 2016 $248 million of senior term bank debt due in May 2017 and $240 million of senior unsecured notes due in June 2018.
The goals of this refinancing were to extend the maturities of our various components of debt which were to mature beginning in May 2013; fix the rate of debt -- fix the rate on a portion of our debt and provide increased liquidity and flexibility compared to the facility that was negotiated upon our emergence from Chapter 11.
The financial impact of the refinancing as of the date of closing was to improve the annual after-tax interest expense of debt by approximately $1.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share compared to the prior debt structure.
On a cash basis we paid $16.8 million of upfront financing fees and expenses at closing.
These costs will be amortized over the life of the respective loans.
We have entered into a interest rate cap transaction on 50% of the projected balance on our senior term bank debt over the next 4 years.
This transaction caps the base LIBOR and new [ph] LIBOR interest rates at 3% thus providing interest rate protection on approximately 75% of our total borrowings when you consider the senior notes portion of our debt.
The cost of purchasing such interest rate protection will offset a small portion of the savings from the refinancing but will provide the company with certainty of rate as we navigate the uncertain interest rate environment over the term of these agreements.
Thanks Cliff.
Ladies and gentlemen we continue to be very positive about our continuing improvements.
But we're mindful that the instability of the current market puts a great reliance on agility rather than rigid adherence to some plans that we may have adopted some time ago.
I'm hopeful the markets will firm up.
And when they do we believe we will be very well positioned to capitalize on them with technologically innovative products up-to-date factories and a very well motivated and eager workforce.
That concludes our planned remarks this morning.
So Crystal we're ready for our first caller's question.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Kevin Cohen with Imperial Capital.
LLC</strong> Stephen I'm wondering if you could just comment a little bit about the top line organic growth in the second quarter x FX rather it was up about 6%.
Is that primarily price or volume? Or was it about evenly split between the 2? Kevin first thank you for the call.
We appreciate you paying attention to us this morning.
We are very pleased with the increasing revenue.
We think that it's not driven by one specific activity.
I think the gain in revenue is really the execution of our overall strategy of the introduction of the new products of creating value at the facilities of our customers.
We have seen a good pricing environment.
We've seen absolutely terrific take-up of the new products.
Within the product growth rates that you saw for the quarter we've had some of our new products well up over 70% adoption rate.
Our new product trials are going extremely well with virtually a 100% reorder rate.
We've gotten to the point now we've been doing so many new products trials that when we put a product on a customer's machine generally that product makes a substantial improvement in the first run.
The senior staff attended a presentation yesterday which our technology guys reviewed the adoption rates or the reorder rates and I can only think of one product that was as low as 86%.
The rest of the products had 100% adoption rates.
So I think what's happening here is that we are coming to the confluence of having the right products the right organization the right geographic reach the right relationships with our customers.
And as you probably know we sell at 3 levels in this industry.
We sell to the machine manager we sell to the mill manager and of course we generally sell to the purchasing or corporate people through the parent.
So the sale is not just based on do you have the best widget but do you provide the best value.
And I think that's what's driving top line.
LLC</strong> That's definitely helpful.
And in terms of economic uncertainty being a little bit more pronounced of late have you seen any change in terms of the competitive backdrop with competitors not pushing price to the degree that they used to? Or has that changed at all? Or is it too early to tell either way? I think it's a little early.
But generally what we're seeing is that all the people that make products similar to ours are under the same kinds of cost pressures that we are under and we're not seeing a lot of rogue behaviors.
Each of us will target or has targeted specific transactions or specific customers that we think are critical accounts and we'll do things at those accounts that perhaps we might not do in the broader market.
But I think even in that situation we're seeing relatively little of it.
The market has certainly matured over the last 3 years to be much less the Wild West and much more focused on value and earning of a fair return on what we have to do.
LLC</strong> That's certainly encouraging.
And then lastly before I get back in the queue in terms of your final comment during the prepared comments about rigid adherence to certain plans can you just elaborate a little bit more about what you meant by that? Well I can certainly give you one prime example and it deals with our Australia press felt facility or our Australia Paper Machine Clothing facility.
I recall going into the late 2008 2009 recession that we announced the closure of that facility and the facility remained closed for about a year.
It was our intent not to restart that facility but frankly to relocate it.
Demand for our products in the press felt -- on the press felt portion of our Paper Machine Clothing had been so extraordinary that in the spring of 2010 we agreed to bring on or maybe it was fall of 2009 we agreed to bring on every a small group of people to run some specific products for what we thought would be peak-load shaving.
Since that initiative to do peak-load shaving we have just continuously brought on more people more people more people and that factory is anticipated to be running at the same rate that it was prior to the recession within a matter of just a few months.
We've been working with the buyer -- because we had announced that we had sold that property we've been working with the buyer to retain access and operational performance in that plant for the protracted -- for a very protracted period of time.
It's that kind of agility it's that kind of willingness to move away from a rigidly established plan in response to market dynamics that I think is a hallmark of what we've been able to do.
I'll give you one other and that is that we anticipated that our new products in and of themselves would create compelling reasons for customers to buy these products.
What we have found and you'll recall that new product introduction was our strategy #2 our global strategy #2.
Global strategy #1 was to get our financial house in order and I think Cliff has shown that we've done exactly that.
So global strategy 2 is bring out the new product.
Global strategy 3 was about maximizing the contribution of our people.
And what we found is that we have energized the organization with the new products such that our field engagement with our customers right now is absolutely extraordinary.
I had the good fortune to tour a tissue facility in the western part of the United States about a month ago and the engagement of our sales and applications engineering team with the customer was so seamless.
It was hard to tell whether the salesmen worked for them or worked for us and whether the customer worked for us or what have you.
I mean it was just how to maximize the output of this factory.
And in so doing we're creating really terrific value.
So what we value for the customer and value for us.
So our plan about just keep pumping out these new products and they'll sell themselves has had to be modified to really recognize the extraordinary contribution that the people are making.
So it's those kinds of -- it's that willingness to be agile and say "Okay that was a good plan or a good strategy.
But is there more we can do?" And the flip side of that is as we watch our demand and we watch our bookings certainly we're very sensitive to trade working capital.
And if we believe that the bookings do not support the kind of output that we're generating we will very quickly turn the burner down or turn the rate of production down on our output.
So I think it's that agility that is so critical to operating in an environment that we're in today.
Now I don't want anybody to come away thinking that what we're seeing is softness.
Quite the contrary.
Our backlogs remain very solid and we are groping and struggling with how do we allocate our resources to address those backlogs in a manner that gets the lead times down to where we and our customers are comfortable.
But we're -- I think we're making very good progress in that.
I guess it's not a but.
We are making very good progress in that.
And our focus on long view of this industry this is not quarter-to-quarter although we're agile quarter-to-quarter this is where we're taking the business over the long term.
LLC</strong> So based on that comment one would infer there would be no reason to think the company would need to take down time or run at lower operating rates in the second half despite the uncertainty in the economy right now? Is that how you would...
Yes we're not seeing any reason to adjust our production levels in any of our product areas other than on our press felt.
We'd like to make more but we're making every kilogram we can make today.
Our next question is from the line of Rick Hoss with Roth Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> Stephen can we spend a little bit time on gross margin? One I was hoping to break out the impact or should I say the benefit from the inventory reserve provision if we can isolate that into maybe a basis point and trying to figure out what the impact of that was? Okay I think that's -- it's a little difficult for us to hear you but I think we've got it.
You're interested in the impact of the inventory reserve adjustment on gross margin.
LLC</strong> Correct.
What I would say for the quarter is that when you look at the relationship versus last year the decline is pretty much the foreign currency impacts.
In other words net of that you would be flat at 38.9% gross margins for the quarter.
And what we've said is that the impact of the obsolescence reserve reversal is really offsetting what we're seeing from a mix standpoint relative to the higher sales of these lower margin product lines and increased material cost and freight cost that we're seeing.
At this time that's really what we're seeing.
So it's not a case of where we're seeing lower margins by product.
It's really a mix issue.
We are seeing some material hit us particularly in the roll side of the business.
We have not seen that on the PMC side as yet because of the pre-buy I guess with the yarns in advance of the petroleum issues.
So that hasn't hit us through the first half of the year.
I would add to that that the reason we've taken the action we did on the inventory reserve quite frankly is because we're running better.
We are not making as much material that needs to be set aside.
Our alignment between production and customer orders has improved over the last 18 or 24 months from the time we changed our inventory reserve practice leading into the recession.
So I view the change as an adjustment to what is an ongoing better situation in terms of our ability to produce product that is salable.
An interesting statistic that we can share with you is that in a review conducted just over the last couple of days we've recognized that the yield improvement that we spoke about on the dryer business related to the rationalization activity has saved us 50 000 square meters of woven fabric a year.
To give you some perspective as to how much reduction that really is that is 3 months of output of our second largest forming fabric factory.
So it's an enormous improvement and it shows up in this reduced need to reserve for inventory obsolescence.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So that's something that we can count on happening in subsequent quarters or is it just the one quarter? Well we took an adjustment which you have seen in Q2.
But what we're telling you what we're saying to you is that we're operating better and the reserve pressure on inventory is reduced.
We will not be reserving each quarter as much as we have been because of a change in how we are -- a change in the percentages if you will that we've structured in the inventory reserve policy.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you're saying that you take the reserves that benefit gross margin for the second quarter but you took the reserve because you are now running that much more efficiently.
Therefore in subsequent quarters all else being equal you're consuming less material and therefore on a comparative basis your gross margin would be higher? It would be improved correct.
That's correct exactly.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Now do you view your business as a 40% gross margin business? Or should we consider that with Asia contributing a little bit more on a mix that maybe we give up a couple of hundred basis points as that mix is likely to sustain itself? Well we're not going to give you guidance particularly as to how many basis points.
But what I'd be prepared to tell you is that today Asia represents 43% of global paper production and that by 2025 according to the industry analysts it will represent 51.5%.
So given that kind of growth and our sustained growth and significantly increasing penetration into Asia you would anticipate that our gross margins would be diminished at least proportionately to the amount of participation we have in Asia.
If you think back to where we were when we announced the termination of the Vietnam project what we said was that given we did not have distribution in Asia we didn't have a way to sell the product it seems inappropriate for us to build a factory at that time.
And we said in parallel to the closure announcement that we would set about building distribution in Asia so that we had customer relationships to whom we could sell.
We have now done that and Asia is a significantly growing portion of our business both on clothing and on roll.
Given that we do not provide guidance geographically we only provide guidance between rolls and clothing and we don't see a reason to make that change I would tell you that our growth rate in Asia is faster than our growth rate anywhere else.
So there will be ongoing pressure on gross margin as more and more of the business goes to Asia.
There also as Cliff pointed out in his remarks would be ongoing pressure on trade working capital simply because of the time product spends on the water.
Now the offset to both of those is to have an Asian production facility.
I think it's no secret we've been evaluating different ways of doing that.
We continue to do it.
Our growth in press felt sales our growth in press felt market share is causing us to think very quickly now about how we do that so as to be able to satisfy demand but simultaneously to recapture what would be lower margins if we were to continue to export into Asia over time.
So I hope that helps a little bit.
LLC</strong> Yes it does help.
And then just as a reminder what sort of production from your South American facilities percentage-wise heads over to the Asian market? Without giving you specifics I think I'd be willing to say that more than half of our South American clothing output is exported.
LLC</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then Cliff can you help me out with the tax rate for the second half of 2011? Sure.
I guess we had given guidance or made a comment at the end of last quarter that we expected the overall effective tax rate for the year to be in that mid to high 40% range.
I would say at this time that it should be for the full year in a 45% to 55% range.
That would be where I would have it.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of DeForest Hinman with Walthausen &amp; Co.
Stephen I had 2 questions.
Can you kind of give us some more color on your commentary that the order books on the PMC side are being constrained to prevent lead time expansion? I mean what timeframe is that where you won't book the order in terms of your availability to get it produced? Sure DeForest.
We -- there are specific models or styles of our press felts where lead time is close to a year.
Okay.
And I guess is that one of the reasons for the increased need on the CapEx side on the press felt side? Absolutely.
We have seen since the beginning of our new product introduction strategy a rather extraordinary growth rate on press felt demand far exceeding the growth rate of paper production anywhere in the world.
And we mathematically determined that it's likely that that's the gain in market share.
I think it's hard to refuse that it's a gain in market share.
We would not want to quantify what that number is.
But given the performance of the new products and the very rapid adoption as I indicated we're seeing 100% acceptance rate on new product trials.
We think that the growth rates that we're experiencing today is going to continue.
But even if the cut that growth rate in half we are well beyond our reasonable capacity and in fact in many products exceed our theoretical maximum capacity.
So if we ran every factory wide open every day of the week for the year we still would not satisfy all the demand.
So rather than have a customer order a fabric and be disappointed about its delivery we are being very direct with smaller customers and saying look we cannot provide this.
It's not a matter of what you pay for.
There is a queue and the length of the queue is such that you really need to order from somebody else.
Now at the same time we're of course staying very engaged with them.
We're trying to do the consultative selling and help them improve their products or improve their production process because as I indicated in my remarks we will have increased our capacity by 34% by the beginning of 2012 and we have more capacity adds coming in 2012.
We're a little bit of a victim of our own good success here and that we could not possibly have imagined the acceptance rate on some of these new press felts.
So I think we're in a good situation of being able to satisfy all of the absolutely major customers and we do a top to bottom rank on the customers.
But we're missing an opportunity in bookings.
We are suppressing bookings artificially because of this lead time issue.
Okay.
And you talked about your gaining market share but then you also mentioned the PMC inventory levels at the mill level of kind of moved up to more of a historic level relative to I think you said 2007 which I think you characterized as fairly healthy or normalized.
So just to confirm it's your expectation with the market share gains that if inventories remain at kind of this level that we're at right now we can still grow our sales? Is that a reasonable assumption going forward? Yes I think that's exactly right.
You've got that.
We think that January of '07 inventory levels are a good benchmark for customer inventory.
The business was running well.
The whole industry was running well at the time.
We believe that the channel stuffing that occurred preceding the recession occurred after that time and we see that in the graphics that we track on overall inventory level.
If the inventories stay where they are today and I see no reason or customer behaviors that indicate they won't.
Given that inventories stay where they are today I think we're in a very healthy environment and that we will continue to do the kind of share gain and customer value selling that has brought to where we are today.
Okay.
And we've had some recent declines in the price of oil I know you said we're going to be burning through some of the yarn into the second half.
How quickly does the price of yarn fall relative to the decline in pricing of oil? And then how soon can we see some cost relief on the yarn side? Well let me sort of start at the beginning.
We anticipated that the spikes that were coming in oil last year and bought well ahead for yarns.
We were competing with our competitors to buy capacity at the plants at the yarn manufacturing plants and hence we really loaded up.
In fact we bought so much yarn that we reduced our inventory turnover of raw material by 50% from in the high-40s to the low-20s or mid-40s to the low-20s when we looked at how much yarn we actually had bought.
That sheltered us from the increase we're still burning through that mountain of yarn that we purchased.
I think it will be a fair amount of time before the yarn prices that we saw rise although we didn't pay for them before they start to fall again.
I would certainly think it will go beyond the year because the pipeline is quite long from the well head if you will until we see it as yarn available for the factory.
It's least 6 or 9 months.
So we're delighted that the prices have come back down.
We're hopeful that they stay down but your guess is as good as ours about that.
Okay.
And can you kind of give us just a better understanding of your finished goods inventory? You released the Qs.
Now we have definitive numbers on the call and we're seeing finished goods moving up for 2 straight quarters.
You commented on some roll inventories getting shipped or rolls getting shipped in the third quarter.
So I mean can help us kind of understand where you think the finished goods inventories are heading directionally in the second half of the year? Sure.
Let me parse the inventory build apart.
There were 3 drivers on inventory build.
Two of them relate -- actually all 3 of them relate to Europe.
I was going to say 2 but all 3 relate to Europe.
First we had a significant roll order in support of one of the paper machine manufacturers.
I had mentioned earlier the spreader roll that we manufacture.
This is a very different kind of roll than what you might originally conceive of in a machine and we are the world's leader in spreader roll technology and production.
OEM lead times on those rolls can be as much as a year and we pre-buy.
You don't get progress payments from the purchaser in this case.
So we pre-buy all the inventory to build these rolls and when the paper machine is ready we ship them.
That shipment is scheduled for Q3.
And it's several million dollars of finished goods inventory that will come out of the system.
The second driver of inventory build finished goods inventory build relates to the European summer.
And we have typically built inventory to cover demand while our factories are shut down.
Now given the fact that we are right at the upper edge of capacity in capacity utilization in those factories it was difficult for us to accumulate as much inventory as we needed to get through the summers.
And we could not run the factories as we did last summer frankly because we had skipped the year of maintenance cycle and we couldn't avoid another year.
We just simply needed to get the maintenance time on the equipment.
So we've prebuilt a very significant amount of inventory to cover European and Asian demand for fabric during the July August and early September periods during which our output will be very much depressed.
And then finally in the fourth quarter of this year we have a couple of pieces of machinery being shut down for major modifications to enable the production of the new products that we're bringing out.
We're seeing a shift as we bring out these new products we're seeing a shift from the older designs to the newer designs.
That is mandating modification of these equipment.
So in order to keep supplier -- or customer continuity during that period we've also built inventory for that.
The primary when you get below the total number on inventory growth and you adjust for currency almost 80% of the inventory gain relates to those 3 specific areas that we just talked about.
Okay that's helpful.
And can you talk about the more big picture on the Chinese strategy? There's going to be a number of paper machines coming online in China over the next few years.
You talked about increase in distribution.
I guess first can you talk about what you think our ability is to sell felts on those machines with our current manufacturing footprint? Well I'd like to think about Asia in aggregate as opposed to China.
China represents about half the volume in Asia half the tonnage of paper production.
We are on all of the new machines the fastest machine in the world the biggest and fastest machine in the world is an APP machine at Hainan and we are on that machine.
Our relationship with the major paper producers in China and the rest of Asia is very good.
You name it we're a supplier.
9Dragons APP Honsel Gold Dragon Gold East you pick them.
We're suppliers to them.
We've built a very solid distribution process.
The distribution process frankly now is constrained by product supply.
And that is -- the key focus that we're working on now is how do we get more capacity in Asia to satisfy that demand? And we believe that the market is very good for us.
We believe the whole value selling approach that we use of combining outstanding product performance and really highly skilled paper makers and application engineers is allowing us to help the customers optimize equipment.
So we think the growth opportunity for Asia is terrific for us.
Now that our financial house is in order we have the dry powder to execute and we are not going to be reticent about going forward.
We have a very long view of the business.
We don't have something else to go do in 2025.
We're not making boats or mining equipment or airplanes or what have you.
We're in the Paper Machine Clothing and the roll cover business and we're taking a view that we want to be extremely well positioned to serve that market.
It's been a very good market.
It continues to be a terrific market.
While all the discussion about paper going away continues it's like a machine.
It just keeps growing and we think we're very well positioned.
So we've got -- there's a lot of pressure on us to grow capacity in Asia.
We want to do it in an orderly manner.
We want to do it consistent with the quality levels that our customers expect.
But we want to do it and we are busy working on that.
Okay.
And I guess that kind of leads me to my last question.
I now we have a facility in Vietnam in place but I don't think there's anyone there at this time.
I mean is it more a function of -- is it too hard to some extent to do a Greenfield in a sense that these machines are so complex you're ramping up the learning curve with the employees? Or does it make more sense to purchase the facility that has some level of production skill and then just kind of improve either the equipment or the technology that they're utilizing at that facility and then try to sell into that market? DeForest there isn't a simple answer to your question.
Both are very challenging.
The reason we have not done any more with Vietnam and in fact are working to get that building sold is the building was aimed at a product that is of less importance to us where we have ample production capacity.
It was the wrong facility and the wrong place at the wrong time.
And had we gone ahead and filled the building with machinery we would have a lot of idle capacity right now.
So I think the decision to not execute there to address the earlier caller's question of making a major change in a plan that was a very lucky decision for us at that time.
Whether we do a Greenfield whether we acquire and expand all of those are challenging.
But what facilitates what will facilitate our activity in that area today is that we've got a pretty good-sized organization in Asia now.
We've got good manufacturing skills in our roll business.
We've got people that understand the market.
We've got our customer relationships pretty well established.
And I think that we're -- and we're going to take a very long-term view.
So whatever we do is going to be the first step of many steps.
And I think that's how you do it without creating a lot of risk.
Our last call -- last question comes from the line of John Toper [ph] with Bennett.
Many of my questions have been answered but could you please tell me why your tax rate is going to be 50% this year? That's just the highest I ever heard.
Okay a couple of points to make on that.
One we do make -- we do have operations -- in other words we do have jurisdictions where we are losing money we get no tax benefit for that.
So you've got to factor that in.
Historically that's been an issue.
That's something that the company is working on.
From a cash tax basis just to fill in the blanks what I was talking about was the effective tax rate on the books side.
From a cash tax basis that rate would be lower.
It would probably be in the 35% range if that helps.
Okay.
Second as given the capacity constraint that you talk about and then I think you also talked about how you pulled aside as much inventory will we see an investment in working capital on a continuing basis in the second half of the year and even in 2012? John I think what you'll see is a dis-investment.
We expect working capital to come down given the delivery of the finished goods inventories that we spoke about.
And also the end of the -- or the completion of the modification project in December.
We will likely to continue to have a summer-oriented working capital finished goods inventory build primarily driven by the European holiday schedule.
But it's our plan and our strategy to adhere to what we call 0 trapped cash which drives us towards 6 inventory turns 50 receivable days and 75 payable days not counting for payroll.
Could you repeat those? Sure.
Six inventory turns 50 receivable days 75 payable days.
And we are I think through the end of the second quarter at about 3.9 turn.
We have run the business at more than 4.5 turns.
But in that period of time we were not doing the major rebuilds that we're doing and we did not accumulate the OEM orders that this market environment has brought us.
So on a stable and steady-state basis I don't think that while 6 is a very big stretch I don't think getting into the upper 4 is particularly onerous or particularly challenging.
And I think our current physical structure would still allow us to do that even though there's more Asia.
Final question is the fact that ever since I started listening to these calls you talked about trying to get new product targets.
I think it's a 5-year period up to 60%.
It's spitting distance at this point or you're at least you're halfway there.
Would you characterize your ability to introduce new products when you undertook this program as being a wild low hanging fruit? And is it going to be more difficult as your approach to that goal when you run into your 5-year window to continue to meet that goal? Might surprise you I think it's actually going to be easier.
And the reason I think it's easier is that we've got the organization so tuned now to innovation and performance enhancement and rationalization that while you certainly can't see the plans that I can see my question is whether we ought to be raising the goal or not.
Because of course as time goes on here some of the new products that we developed.
The first ones in '08 for example will drop off the chart in '14 and will have to have something new to replace that.
We've spent some time over the last few days looking at those exact things.
So let me give you just a specific example and it shouldn't be any surprise to folks on the call that one of my favorite new products is this thing we call SmartRoll.
We introduced SmartRoll which is a pressure sensing roll patented globally.
We introduced that product in 2008.
Sold 2 of them in 2008.
It was our expectation that we could put one SmartRoll on a paper machine.
And we have now identified 16 locations on most major paper machines where SmartRoll can be applied.
We have a customer running 6 of them on the same machine.
Now it's not the same SmartRoll.
It's version of a SmartRoll and that brings us to how we look at that whole pressure sensing technology.
So being an automotive enthusiast as I am I hearken that to looking at what the folks at Porsche the sports car company did with their business.
They started with one car and they've now build a brand out of that car.
They've got a smaller sports car they've got a Sedan they've got an SUV.
Who knows they might even bring out a pickup truck? When we look at SmartRoll what we thought the product was going to be in 2008 when we rolled it out or beginning of 2009 is now turning into a SMART system where we can provide the customer intelligence throughout his machine.
And in fact it's already progressed to where the information coming out of SmartRoll is actually embedded in what they call the pie systems which are the systems that monitor overall machine operation.
So we're no longer a bolt-on.
We are part of the fabric of that mill and that gives us I think -- if that's a roadmap of where we go product extensions product realizations [ph] is really pretty exciting to us.
So no we're definitely not out of gas.
In fact I'm evermore enthused about where we can go on these new products.
Hopefully that helps.
It did.
I'm going to tag on one question if I could.
And you may just say John we're out of time.
What's your market share? John we're out of time.
That's not a set of numbers that we provide.
Those are developed through industry association data and we're sworn to secrecy through those industry associations.
We can't use that data publicly.
But I do appreciate the questions.
We do give an overall set of guidelines on market share and that's available in the investor presentation that's on our website so I'll leave it at that.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for your attention today.
We look forward to talking to you again in November.
Bye-bye now.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies Third Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call on November 9 2011.
[Operator Instructions] I would now hand the call conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies' Third Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Stephen Light the CEO Chairman and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Stephen will start the discussion this morning with an update on our progress and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were announced in a press release after market close on Tuesday November 8 2011.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
We have also posted a slide presentation on our website which we'll refer to during this conference call.
I'd also note that will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects for the company that constitute forward-looking statements for the purpose of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described n Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today November 9 2011 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we'd like -- we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release and in our materials which are each posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Stephen.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
By now you've had a chance to review our earnings release and our slides which we posted on the Xerium website last night so I'm not going to walk you through the specifics of each chart.
But Cliff and I will address any topics we miss in our remarks in the Q&amp;A session in just a few minutes.
Notwithstanding that we grew revenue by 9.1% it should be obvious from our results that the quarter was quite challenging as the global paper market has been unsettled for the past several months.
By unsettled in our industry I mean that mill managers are reluctant to place orders for rolls and clothing when they think there is a slowdown on the horizon.
You can see this in our lower and essentially flat-lined bookings for both rolls and clothing.
Throughout the quarter however our backlogs remained robust even with the lower level of orders we experienced.
Our Paper Machine Clothing press felt backlog remains particularly strong as it has been for the past year.
The overall paper market has been experiencing substantial downward pricing pressure with pulp in South America which we use as a leading indicator down approximately 20% from its peak last year.
Prices for newsprint and printing and writing are feeling the same pressures in some regions.
You can see from our decline in margins that while we have continued to hammer away on our cost structure actually increasing sales per employee by 6.6% in Q3 versus last year's Q3 and worked hard to pass along as much of our cost increases as we can we've not been able to offset all of the pressures with either cost reductions or increased pricing.
I expect this pressure will abate slightly with declining oil prices but the lag time between oil prices at the wellhead and the price of yarn seems to be about 9 months.
Rubber the other major commodity we purchase has seen no decline in pricing and it is negatively impacting our roll cover businesses.
Our margins are also impacted by our increasing revenue derived from emerging markets such as Asia.
In 2005 only 12.6% of our revenue came from Asia.
In contrast through Q3 as you can see on Slide 6 18.6% of our 2011 revenue has been derived from Asia.
This growth is the result of our strategic initiative to increase our revenue in this fast-growing market to increase customer engagement by expanding our sales and applications engineering resources resident in the region while utilizing our existing factories to produce the products.
In 2005 most of our Asian revenue came from Japan Korea and Australia.
Now a meaningful percentage comes from China and Indonesia.
While this is a great business and we're happy to have it as the developed markets remain in the doldrums because we import into the region from higher cost factories elsewhere in the world and have to absorb much of the freight and logistics expense our margins are lower from these sales than are realized for the same or similar products in the mature markets.
We fully understand that the best means to return to our historical margins is to produce in lower cost regions and we are continually working toward that position as resources permit.
Meanwhile our new product initiatives continue to make progress in every served market.
In Q3 we derived 48% of our revenue from new product sales roughly the same as in Q2.
We continue on the path to our goal of 60% by the end 2012 with all the new products we'll need to reach our goal already in the development pipeline.
I'm pleased to tell you that progress continues on our SmartRoll introductions with 160 ordered as of the end of Q3 and nearly 100 installed and in operation.
Additional commercially successful SmartRoll applications now total 14 a marked increase from our original plan of just 1 SmartRoll application per paper machine.
For most customers SmartRolls are paying for themselves in just a few months.
Also contributing to the increase in new roll product revenue is our newly revamped spreader roll product line.
Spreader rolls are used to keep the paper machine clothing smooth and wrinkle-free in the machine and historically have long life expectancies.
Our newest spreader rolls have even better performance characteristics particularly lower energy requirements and even better life.
These have been available for just 6 months and are beginning to take over the product line.
As an old spreader roll comes into our plant for refurbishment we're able to convert it to the latest product generation providing our customers with measurably improved value while also improving the margin of the sale.
Now before I turn the call over to Cliff I want to make some comments about our press felt capacity and how we're resolving the issue of long lead times for this product family.
The answer comes in several forms.
First we recently informed our Australian workforce that we would be resuming full rate production at our Geelong Australia press felt plant.
This plant had the capacity to produce 300 tons of press felt when it was closed in March of 2009 ahead of the 2009 recession.
In order to satisfy the surge in orders we experienced at the end of the recession we restarted just a small portion of that capacity in mid-2010.
Over the past 1.5 years the contract workforce there has performed admirably and we had gradually increased production up to a rate of -- equal to 120 tons per year or 40% of peak capacity by the middle of this year.
As our press felt demand has continued to outpace even that increase we've decided to return the plant to full output early in 2012.
Hiring and training for this startup are underway now.
Secondly we've been investing in our Brazilian press felt plant during this same period.
One of the 2 remaining key pieces of equipment required to boost our plant's press felt capacity from its original 160 tons to nearly 400 tons is in the final stages of installation and commissioning.
The final piece of machinery is a second impact non-woven product production facility which will come online in Q1 2012.
You may recall this is the new product line we introduced in 2010 that has increased our market penetration into paper grades we did not serve while it substantially reduces production costs because it does not require weaving.
Once this new non-woven line is in place we believe we will have adequate press felt capacity to support our customer's requirements while simultaneously reducing lead times and work-in-process inventories throughout 2012 and well into 2013.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff for his remarks on our financial results.
Thank you Stephen.
I’d like to start off by referring to the sales chart on page 9 of the slides.
Sales for the quarter increased 9.1% to $148.2 million from $135.9 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange rate differences sales increased 4.3%.
This increase was comprised of a 3.2% growth on our clothing business and 6.6% growth in our rolls business.
On a year-to-date basis sales increased 9.4% or 5.2% on a constant-currency basis well ahead of global paper tonnage growth.
On the same constant-currency basis clothing sales grew to 4.2% while rolls improved 7.1% for the year-to-date period.
On a sequential basis sales for the third quarter decreased 1.4% compared to the second quarter of 2011 as a result of unfavorable currency adjustments and a decline in clothing sales partially offset by an increase in roll sales.
Gross margin dollars as compared to the third quarter of 2010 improved 3% largely as a result of increased sales volume and favorable currency exchange differences.
Gross margin as a percentage of sale declined to 36.6% of sales from 38.7% of sales in the third quarter of 2010.
As Stephen indicated this decline was due to increased material costs and higher sales of low-margin product lines as well as favorable recoveries of paper machine clothing inventories in the prior year's third quarter.
Compared to the second quarter 2011 gross margins declined -- gross margin dollars declined 6.3% while gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased from 38.5% to 36.6% largely as a result of the reduction in inventory reserves in the second quarter of this year.
On a year-to-date basis compared to the first 3 quarters of 2010 gross margin dollars excluding the impact of currency differences improved by $5.1 million or 3.3% while gross margin as a percentage of sales excluding the impact of currency differences declined 0.6 percentage points.
This decline in gross margin rate over the first 3 quarters of 2011 was largely the result of increased paper machine clothing sales growth in regions with lower gross margins and increased raw material costs in our rolls business.
Selling general and administrative expenses excluding restructuring costs increased 0.3% to $36.7 million from $36.6 million.
On a constant currency basis selling general and administrative expenses again excluding restructuring costs improved $2 million due primarily to reduced incentive compensation expenses and lower environmental expenses in the third quarter of 2011.
The chart on Slide 10 shows that SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales improved over 2 full percentage points to 24.8% from 26.9% in the third quarter of 2010.
Income from operations improved in the third quarter of 2011 by 33% to $16.9 million from $12.7 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange differences income from operations improved 37% and 92% for the quarter and 9 months ended September 30 2011.
Net interest expense improved 17.5% to $9.9 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $12 million in the third quarter of 2010.
This decline in interest expense reflects lower current interest rates and debt balances and the amortization of interest rates swap cost in 2010 net of higher deferred financing cost amortization in the current year.
The decrease in interest rates and the increase in deferred financing cost amortization are a result of the refinancing in May 2011.
Cash interest expense in the third quarter of 2011 was $8.9 million.
Income taxes as a percentage of pretax income was 48% in the third quarter of 2011 and 63% on a year-to-date basis.
Our overall effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit.
Looking forward we expect our full-year effective tax rate to be in the mid- to upper-50% range.
Net income and diluted earnings per share improved to $3.5 million or $0.23 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011 from a loss of $3.7 million or $0.24 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
On a year-to-date basis 2011 net income improved to $5.8 million or $0.38 per diluted share from a loss of $73.8 million or $8.84 per diluted share for the comparable 9-month period ended September 30 2010.
As previously disclosed the 2011 year-to-date results include a loss on extinguishment of debt which decreased net income by $2.7 million or $0.18 per share for the 9 months ended September 30 2011.
Page 11 of our slide deck displays our adjusted EBITDA results for the third quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides both the liquidity and financial performance measure of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2011 decreased by 1.7% to $28.6 million from $29.1 million in the third quarter of 2010.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted EBITDA improved 7.7% to $84.9 million from $78.8 million year-over-year.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange differences adjusted EBITDA declined 2.8% for the third quarter of 2011 but improved 6.1% for the 9 months ended September 30 2011.
Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA is $120.2 million for the 12 months ended September 30 2011.
The data on Slide 12 shows improvement in trade working capital from the second quarter of 2011 from 27.9% of sales to 26.7% of sales.
This improvement is primarily related to the impact of a strengthening U.S.
dollar during the third quarter as well as reduced inventory and accounts receivable levels.
Looking back to the fourth quarter of 2010 trade working capital increased from 24.6% of sales to 26.7% of sales as a result of weakening U.S.
dollar increased inventories and a large vendor payment which were made just after year end.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period totaled $18.9 million.
As shown on Slide 13 we now expect full year capital expenditures to approximate $30 million which is just below our previous estimate of $32 million.
No mission critical projects are being withheld or deferred but all projects are carefully reviewed.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $24.1 million in the third quarter of 2011.
In addition the company generated another $5.4 million of cash from the sale and leaseback of our manufacturing facility in Geelong Australia.
A portion of total cash generated was used in the third quarter of 2011 for capital expenditures of $6.9 million and debt reduction of $11.7 million.
This debt repayment along with the impact of foreign currency adjustments reduced the company's long-term debt by approximately $20 million compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Additionally the company's cash position also increased during the quarter of 2011 by $8.5 million to $43 million.
Thanks Cliff.
In Cliff's remarks and our filing as you can see we have a clear focus on executing to a very tight plan and are seeking every opportunity to conserve expenses while we grow the company.
I was asked a few weeks ago to comment on FedEx's reduction in their forecast for the current fiscal year and whether FedEx remained a good proxy for the paper industry.
As you know FedEx is a bellwether importer from Asia into the U.S.
and most everything that flies on one of their planes is in some form of paper packaging.
In a recent article about FedEx's holiday plans they reaffirmed they expect and are experiencing reduced volumes from Asia.
I believe we're seeing the same situation manifested in our reduced bookings and that while paper production is only slowing a small amount it is definitely slowing in nearly all geographies.
However unlike late 2008 and early 2009 there is much less paper machine clothing and roll cover inventory in the pipeline between the paper machine clothing producers including Xerium and the paper mills so the multiplication effect we experienced back then is unlikely to happen this time.
In late 2008 when the paper company slowed down about 5% they consumed their bloated inventories of PMC before reordering.
Consequently we slowed down about 30% waiting for them to return to a more reasonable inventory-to-production balance.
Our just-completed mill and machine level paper machine clothing inventory audits showed that PMC inventories remained well in check now with only a few customers allowing their inventories to return to January 2007 levels.
We are also in a much more regionally and grade-diverse position than we were in 2008.
So I'm much less concerned about this situation than I was then although we continue to monitor all of our customers' inventories and their outputs very closely.
Finally as Cliff highlighted we made $11.7 million in mostly voluntary and unscheduled payments against our term debt.
I'm pleased we have begun the process of de-leveraging and look forward to continuing on down this path.
Now that we have our financing securely in place and are generating meaningful amounts of uncommitted cash we're considering various uses of the free cash flow to improve long-term shareholder value uses that are not specifically prohibited within our credit facilities at our current leverage ratios.
Now Cliff and I will be very pleased to take your questions.
Quiona may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Richard Kus with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if you had talked about it in the comments if you did I missed it.
But can you talk about what volumes were in each of your segments this quarter compared to last year? We did not speak about that.
What I think we can tell you is that the ratio between rolls and clothing which typically is 2/3 1/3 has not changed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then among demand for the various grades is it fair to say that you guys have experienced more of a slowdown in printing and writing and you've probably seen more of your sales coming out of those packaging in tissue-type grades so maybe they’re a larger percentage of your sales at this point? I think the way I'd answer that Richard is that the segment that we are most focused on not being a player in or becoming less sensitive to is newsprint.
Packaging is Xerium's long suit although printing and writing is our largest segment.
We feel we have very strong positions market share positions which we do not publish but we believe we have very strong market share positions in packaging and tissue.
In fact we would claim leadership in the tissue market.
Some of our competitors might debate that but we feel very strongly there that that's our case.
We are probably #2 in printing and writing but it does vary geographically as well.
Of course there's so much packaging so much packaging grade material produced in Asia to support global trade.
That's of course a big demand.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And do you guys think that as far as Asia goes that they continue to slow down? Or are you expecting something -- the economy there to bounce back? I think for me to be prognosticating what's going to happen over there is certainly out of my depth.
I read 3 newspapers and 2 online services everyday and I get 5 opinions.
So I'd be more than happy to hear your opinion.
I think they will continue to grow but I don't think that we’re going to see 9%.
The most recent things I'm seeing are 6.8% 6.9% which is still very healthy growth.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that’s fair.
And then lastly you guys touched on it a little bit the various uses of free cash flow.
Does debt reduction remain a priority in here or are you guys pretty comfortable with where the leverage is and you’ll look to do other things as you said to enhance shareholder value? Debt reduction definitely remains a priority for the business.
At this point in time we've generated some nice cash in the third quarter.
We've used some of that to pay down the debt.
Given the economic outlook in the world -- across the globe really we're sitting on some more cash than we might normally be.
But absolutely we are looking to pay down the debt over the long-term.
Richard to volunteer and answer one of the questions that we've gotten frequently from investors is "Will we consider -- would we consider doing a share repurchase?" And the terms of our credit facility specifically forbid that or prohibit that until we reach a leverage ratio well below where we are today.
We are at 3.99 as of today which is the lowest we've been since 2005.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Post with Roth Capital Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Looking back at your comments on the press felt capacity initiatives.
Just wanted to get more commentary on the margin the near-term margin impact of that and then also how long will it take you guys to sort of normalize the machine clothing lead times that have been hampering orders in my opinion? That's a couple of questions.
Today press felts -- press felt revenue today is supported by 54.4% of new product which is of course well over the total clothing numbers.
So you can see that press felt is the leadership position we’re in.
Customer demand for the press felt product seems to be bottomless.
We continue to constrain order acceptance because of lead times.
We will have increased press felt capacity between 2008 and the end of 2011 by more than 40%.
We think that's good and will carry us through '12 and the early part of '13 and allow us to restore more normal lead times at that point.
But we -- as the comments as the written comments also indicated or the scripted comments indicated we've got the next generations of products coming down the pipe right now so I don't see any slowdown in the adoption of new felt products.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And should we expect some margin improvement in concert with the new capacity coming up? I mean it's going to come up in the next 2 quarters.
Can we expect that -- the margin improvement to happen with that or is it going to take a few months to come to be realized? How I think I would answer that would be as follows.
And that is old press felt being replaced by new press felt in the same region you would see improved margin.
Much of the new press felt is being sold into Asia supporting that 18.6% of revenue and of course there the margins are lower structurally lower than they are in the developed markets.
I know that's a little bit of a curve and it's not a direct answer to your question but I don't think I can give you a direct answer.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from John Koerber with Bennett Management.
A couple of questions Steve.
The first is I heard your commentary about opening up the Australian plant reopening it up.
And then you also talked about free cash flow.
If I could tease out from you whether you have further plans given your free cash flow to increase the size of your Asian footprint from a factory perspective given you mentioned how your margins are impacted by your shipping costs from your other manufacturing facilities into Asia? Okay.
You cannot tease out from me whether we're going to build a plant in Asia or not.
What I can tell you is that we have very recently re-upped and extended the memorandum of understanding we have with a Chinese PMC producer to increase the amount of fabric that we source there and can sell in greater Asia.
The second question is I just want to look back to the fourth quarter of 2010 which was really your strongest quarter last year.
And I kind of assume that that quarter had something of a pent-up demand in terms of your customers ordering from you.
They had laid low a little bit because of your bankruptcy and also because they were working off their inventory.
Those factors should not be in place given your description of what the market is right now.
And so your fourth quarter will have a tough comparison versus the fourth quarter of 2010 is that a fair statement? Historically we seem to have done better in the second half of the year primarily in the fourth quarter.
However you're right from an economic standpoint the industry was recovering last year.
The fourth quarter was stronger there was some pent-up demand.
This year I think you're seeing people be much more careful I guess in their purchasing and in their ordering pattern.
So I think when you look at fourth quarter of '10 versus fourth quarter of '11 it's going to be a tough comparison.
We also had in the fourth quarter of '10 some onetime benefits in that quarter.
There was a gain on sale of a property in Australia or South America? South America.
South America.
So those onetime issues will also not be present in 2011.
Finally.
You may...
John it might be helpful to look back.
We posted a margin reconciliation that addressed the one-timers in Q4.
If you go back on our website I'm sure you can find that supplemental disclosure that we put out and it was prepared for investors to explain the spike up in margin.
And there was I think a misconception that that was an operating run rate but it was supported by several of these one-timers.
Including some healthy sales of some aged inventories that we were -- we had reserved for but actually sold at a profit.
So that was a boost to the margins in the fourth quarter of last year.
The final question and again I actually as we were on the call I was trying to pull it up and find it and I couldn't quite -- I know you in your Q generally give segment earnings and I don't know if your press release did but if it's possible to get your segment earnings for clothing and roll covers I would appreciate it.
John I think you have...
Is it in the news release I tried to find that I couldn't find it.
No.
I think you'd have to look at our competitor for that.
We don't provide that data.
We have no further questions in queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Stephen Light for closing remarks.
Quiona thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining us for today's call.
Thank you for the questions.
The next time that we'll be speaking to you will be March and that will be our fourth quarter and full year 2011 report.
Thank you very much.
Have a good day.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call on March 14 2012.
[Operator Instructions] I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Stephen Light the CEO Chairman and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Stephen will start the discussion this morning with an update on our progress and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were announced in a press release after market closed on Tuesday March 13 2012.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
We have also posted a slide presentation on our website which we will refer to during this conference call.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2012.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Tuesday's press release and our slide presentation and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today March 14 2012 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these metrics to the comparable GAAP numbers are available on our press release and in our materials which are each posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Stephen.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thanks for joining us this morning to discuss Xerium's fourth quarter and full year results for 2011.
This morning I'm going to speak mostly about the full year.
And Cliff and I will take your questions on our quarter and year once we finish our prepared remarks.
2011 can best be reviewed as 2 separate periods each with markedly different customer demand dynamics.
The first half of 2011 was characterized by month-over-month increases in paper production tonnage in all regions with significant strength in Europe.
In fact through the end of the first quarter according to the Confederation of European Paper Industries or CEPI European paper tonnage had increased over the same period in 2010 by 2.6%.
And according to Bracelpa South American tonnage had increased by 1% over the same period in 2010.
North America was also strong in the first half where newsprint exports to Europe buoyed tonnage production.
While Asian data is more difficult to acquire our internal estimates placed production growth well above 5%.
As a consequence we enjoyed the strong first half bookings shown on Charts 3 4 and 5 of the presentation we released last night.
Our consolidated bookings for the first half year totaled $298.3 million a 4.5% increase from 2010 second half of $285.4 million.
Backlog grew by $10.9 million for the second half -- from the second half of 2010 through the first half of 2011.
The first half of 2011 was distinguished by customers not only making increasing amounts of paper but they were also replenishing their inventories of paper machine clothing that had been depleted during the recession.
And they were performing required roll recoverings in mechanical service work that had been deferred during the same period.
Paper machine clothing and industrial textiles accounted for 63% of total bookings while Rolls and mechanical services accounted for the remaining 37%.
The change in our historical Rolls segment mix of 37% of revenue versus our typical 34% was primarily related to 2 factors.
The first was very strong growth in our Chinese roll covering business resulting from our initiative to broaden our product offering there to include more types of covers more new products and the addition of spread roll recovering which should not have been a product we offered in China but which accounts for more than 22% of our total Rolls segment revenue globally.
The second influence on segment mix was continued softness of our North American and European industrial textiles product line.
These customers are closely related to building construction which decreased PMC segment bookings.
During the first half of 2011 our PMC factories were fully occupied with heavy overtime particularly in the press felt product line as we worked to reduce our backlog and shorten our order to delivery lead times in response to customer needs.
You may recall that our investments to increase press felt capacity were not yet fully online during the first half of the year.
The first half of 2011 was also marked by a rapid increase in material costs driven primarily by the rise in prices of raw materials used in the production of PMC and roll covers specifically oil-based yarns and synthetic and natural rubber.
As the second half of 2011 began paper tonnage production rates globally began a sharp decline with Europe's year-over-year decrease beginning earlier in May according to the CEPI.
According to Bracelpa South America began slowing in Q3 at about the same time we witnessed Asia also slowing but Asia continued in positive territory.
Remarkably North American demand for our clothing products strengthened in the second half while Rolls demand cooled.
Consequently Xerium's bookings declined 12.3% to $261.7 million as mill curtailments and machine shutdowns increased and customer inventory replenishment was completed.
Our tracking of customer inventories revealed that by the summer of 2011 customer inventories had been replenished to between 85% and 90% of January 2007 levels a period we use as our benchmark.
Most notable was an increase in the inventory of press felts.
Our customer survey data shows that their inventory stabilized in Q3 at levels well under the amount seen in November 2008 ahead of the recession when inventories were 15% above January 2007 levels.
Besides the paper production decline in the second half of 2011 numerous other headwinds came to bear on Xerium during the year.
Raw material prices the price we pay for rubber and oil-based products such as the yarns fibers and polyurethanes I mentioned that we use on our high-technology roll covers rose as much as 14% during the year.
The cost impact of these increases and material mix change during the year are estimated to have been approximately $7 million.
Globally material cost increases in the Rolls segment increased 12.7% costing Xerium close to $5 million.
Yarn costs also increased in many regions in comparable or greater percentage but these cost increases were offset by substantially improved weaving yields supplier negotiations and in some instances supplier changes and increased direct labor productivity.
Overall yarn cost increases added approximately $2 million of cost in 2011 net of the cost reductions I've just mentioned.
During the second half of 2011 we experienced an accelerating regional shift as Europe slowed and Asia continued to prosper.
The shift in our revenue source from our most profitable geographies to our least profitable that is Europe to Asia is demonstrated by the percentage of revenue each generated in the first half versus the second half.
In the first half Europe accounted for 39.8% of revenue while Asia was just 15.4%.
In the second half with Europe's slowing and Asia continuing to grow Europe declined to 36.8% and Asia increased to 18.2%.
Asia's sales occur at lower market prices than Europe's for similar products and only to the logistics costs we incur to transit product we make in other regions into Asia our gross margins are considerably lower there.
Meanwhile our Rolls segment continue to experience the shift in customer behavior attributable to extended roll cover life.
And of equal significance following lessons they learned during the recession customers demonstrated the willingness to operate with roll covers longer between service events.
While Rolls sales increases a percentage of our total revenue a portion of this increase is attributable to mechanical services contracts we accepted as a representative of a third-party mechanical contractor in North America.
The gross margins we received from these third-party mechanical service orders is well below the margins for roll cover work we perform in our own plants.
In order to reduce the impact of the headwinds I've described the company proactively worked on further reducing its cost structure during 2011.
Some notable achievements were accomplished.
For example we were able to increase sales per employee from last year's -- or from 2010 163 800 to 171 100 a 4.5% real productivity improvement.
While revenues grew 7% we held headcount essentially flat increasing just 1.3% all of which occurred to support increased Asian clothing and roll productions operation.
We brought our Japanese factory back online within a month of the tsunami and earthquake and returned that plant to full production in December.
We completed all capital expenditures and started up the incremental South American press felt capacity we've discussed earlier giving us the ability to substantially reduce our delivery lead times and overtime expenses.
Our new product initiatives enabled us to grow our market share in North America in all 3 PMC product lines where increased share more than fully offset the decline in demand for forming fabrics and enabled us to grow 4 times faster than the increasing demand for press felt.
Our analysis shows that once the short-trial pricing period of new products is completed most of these new products deliver improved gross margin when compared to the products they replace.
SmartRoll our patented pressure-sensing roll about which I've spoken previously enjoyed a terrific year.
We previously announced the receipt of our 200th order since product launch in 2009.
Today SmartRolls are operating on every continent and helping to produce every grade of paper.
SmartRolls contributed 7.6% of all roll cover revenue and approximately 5% of total Rolls segment revenue.
The product is proving to be earning high customer loyalty as only one of the approximately 175 SmartRolls in operation has been recovered without the smart feature.
As of today no competitor has a commercially proven SmartRoll alternative available although one is trying.
During the second half of 2010 we implemented a new logistics process for shipments into Asia which is reducing the added cost for that traffic.
We estimate full year savings will approach $1 million.
And in May we refinanced our debt into to 2 tranches consisting 7-year bonds and a 6-year term note that reduced our cash interest expenses by $3.6 million annually.
But notwithstanding these improvements as a consequence of the decline in paper production in the second half and stabilized customer inventory we began planning for a substantial production slowdown to occur in Q4.
Our goal was to avoid a cash-consuming increase in our inventories should customer demand remain slow which they have.
We executed this slowdown in Q4 through production curtailments and plant shutdowns throughout the quarter which resulted in under-absorbed fixed-cost overhead.
Simultaneously we delayed or canceled deliveries of raw materials to the maximum extent possible.
These actions resulted in a substantial reduction in inventory from the third quarter.
At year-end 2011 inventory turns reached 4.5 versus 2010 4.2.
Now I'll give the call over to Cliff for his remarks and return with a few comments about 2012.
Thank you Stephen.
I'd like to start off by referring to the sales chart on Page 9 of the slides.
Sales for the quarter increased 0.4% to $145.2 million from $144.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Currency exchange rate differences accounted for a slight reduction while sales improved 0.8% from an operational standpoint compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
This operational improvement was comprised of 4.2% growth in our clothing business primarily press felts and a decline of 5.1% in our Rolls business.
On a sequential basis sales for the fourth quarter decreased 2% compared to the third quarter of 2011 as currency exchange differences accounted for a 3% decline in sales while sales volume grew 1%.
On a full year basis sales increased 7% as currency exchange rate differences accounted for 3% of our growth while the remainder was due to growth in our clothing and roll cover volume of 4.2% and 3.7% respectively.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined to 34.6% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 from 40.3% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2010 largely as a result of: One the unfavorable absorption of production costs in the fourth quarter of 2011 due to a concerted effort to decrease production and reduce inventory; two a favorable recovery of inventory reserves in the fourth quarter of 2010 that did not reoccur in 2011; three increased material costs particularly in our roll covers business; and four higher sales growth in regions and products with lower gross margins.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 gross margin dollars declined 7.4% while gross margin as a percentage of sales decreased to 34.6% from 36.6% largely as a result of unfavorable factory overhead absorption driven by reduced production in our Rolls and PMC segments.
Capitalizing on this reduced-production activity we reduced our inventory by approximately $8 million compared to the third quarter of 2011.
On a full year basis compared to 2010 gross margin dollars improved by $1.8 million or 9% while gross margin as a percentage of sales declined 2.3 percentage points from 39.1% to 36.8%.
Specifically when looking at the primary drivers of the 2.3% reduction in gross margin rates from 2010 to 2011 regional and product mix accounted for 0.9 percentage points increased material costs primarily in our Rolls business accounted for 0.8 percentage points and the impact of foreign currency differences accounted for 0.4 percentage points.
Moving on to the chart on Slide 10.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs increased 2.5% to $37.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 from $36.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Foreign currency exchange rates provided a favorable variance of 0.5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
We experienced cost increases due to higher bank and legal fees higher bad debt reserves and higher property taxes along with modestly higher selling and research development costs and a non-recurring gain from the sale of property in Brazil in the fourth quarter of 2010.
These cost increases were partially offset by lower incentive compensation expenses in 2011.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A and research and development costs increased slightly to 25.6% from 25.1% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Total SG&amp;A and research and development expense for the year ended December 31 2011 declined 3.5% to $153.5 million from $159.1 million.
This reduction was the net result of expenses incurred related to the reorganization in 2010 reducing incentive compensation expense in 2011 and higher selling compensation expenses in 2011 partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign currency differences.
Income from operations declined in the fourth quarter of 2011 by 34.5% to $12.7 million from $19.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Aside from the significant impact of unfavorable factor absorption in the fourth quarter and the impact of significant recoveries related to slow-moving inventory in last year's fourth quarter the quarter-to-quarter comparison was also negatively impacted by a non-recurring gain on the sale of property in South America in 2010.
But the full year 2011 income from operations improved 35% to $61.1 million from $45.3 million in 2010.
Net interest expense improved 23.6% to $9.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 from $12.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This decline in interest expense reflects lower current interest rates and debt balances and the amortization of interest rate swap cost in 2010 net of higher deferred financing cost amortization in the current year's fourth quarter.
The decrease in interest rates and the increase in deferred financing cost amortization are results of the refinancing in May 2011.
Cash interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $8.9 million.
For the full year interest expense improved 31% to $39.2 million from $56.8 million in 2010.
This significant reduction in 2011 was due to $9.7 million of interest rate swaps amortized in 2010 lower current interest rates and debt balances and reduced amortization of deferred financing costs in 2011.
The lower current interest rates were the result of the refinancing of the company's debt in May 2011.
We reduced borrowing levels and amortization of deferred financing costs primarily related to the company's reorganization in 2010.
Income taxes as a percentage of pretax income were 28.4% in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 56.6% for the full year ended December 31 2011.
Our overall effective tax rate for the full year reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
The improvement in the effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was principally due to the impairment of a German deferred tax asset recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 combined with other changes in tax reserves.
Net income and diluted earnings per share increased to $2.4 million or $0.16 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of '11 from $0.7 million or $0.05 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
On a full year basis 2011 net income improved to $8.2 million or $0.54 per diluted share from a loss of $73.1 million or $7.29 per diluted share for the comparable year ended December 31 2010.
Page 11 of our slide deck displays our adjusted EBITDA results for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance where there are existing financing agreements and provides both the liquidity and financial performance measure of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA on the fourth quarter of 2011 decreased to $22.7 million from $35.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted EBITDA declined 5.6% from $114.1 million to $107.7 million representing 18.4% of net sales.
The data on Slide 12 shows improvement in trade working capital from the third quarter of 2011 from 26.7% of sales to 25% of sales.
This improvement is primarily related to an $8 million reduction in the inventory and an increase in trade payables of $3.1 million.
Looking back to the fourth quarter of 2010 trade working capital increased from 24.6% of sales to 25% of sales as a result of increased inventories and large vendor payments which were made just after year end in the prior year.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period totaled $30.2 million.
Capital expenditures for 2011 consisted of $12.2 million in growth CapEx and $18 million in maintenance CapEx.
We currently expect 2012 capital expenditures to also be approximately $30 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $14.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 despite the fact that the company made $13.3 million of annual and semiannual interest payments during the quarter.
For the full year the company generated operating cash of $45.2 million or $3 per diluted share.
This cash along with $7.8 million of net proceeds related to the sale of assets was used to purchase $30.2 million of capital expenditures repaid $14 million of debt and increase the company's unrestricted cash position by $4.9 million.
At year end we had $43.6 million of cash on hand and $17.1 million of borrowing availability.
During the first quarter of 2012 we paid down $12 million on our bank term loans.
Thanks Cliff.
As 2012 opens we see continuation of the same issues of European financial instability that concerned our customers and us in the second half of 2011.
We are also recipients of a recent paper company CEO survey released by Pricewaterhouse in which 53% of paper industry CEOs are said to expect global economic decline during the year.
As a consequence of all these inputs we're expecting our first half production to closely approximate last year's second half.
However we expect a strong recovery will occur in our 2 segments in the second half of 2012 based upon customer inventory data and continued new product-driven market share gains.
Even if 2012 simply repeats the second half of 2011 we believe we'd -- we will be in decent shape relative to our financial obligation.
To Xerium the challenges of a smaller market will be dealt with head on.
Our actions for 2012 to offset the likely continued increases in our raw material costs and diminished paper tonnage include: Driving new product revenues to gain share with existing customers and gain new ones in emerging markets.
I expect to achieve our long-standing goal of 60% of revenue from products developed in the prior 5 years by the end of 2012.
And that this growth will continue to result in Xerium gaining share in its mature markets.
Once again as we complete customer trials of new products and the trial pricing period ends these products have been shown to contribute to Xerium's bottom line through improved margins.
We will redouble our yield and productivity initiatives to continue to offset increased yarn prices which are being driven by rising oil prices.
Last year our dryer yields as measured by tons of raw materials purchased versus tons shipped to customers reached nearly 70% as compared to just over 50% in 2008.
Forming yields which are now in the low 60% range today increased from about 50% in 2008.
We anticipate forming yields moving closer to dryer yields as more new products which bring manufacturing standardization become a larger portion of our output.
We intend to use our new press felt capacity to reduce lead times and recapture customers we had to abandon particularly in Asia because we could not produce as much product as customers wanted.
We plan to raise prices for our products and services in order to offset the increased costs we expect to experience in 2012 and to recover the ground we lost in 2011.
While we began increasing prices in mid-2011 it was extremely difficult to gain much traction when demand softened later in the year.
I expect that with the second half market strength we anticipate the environment will be far more favorable for positive pricing actions.
I expect our Asian businesses to continue their strong growth rate which approximated 20% in 2011 versus 2010.
To the extent possible we are removing excess headcount throughout the company.
These actions are being made possible by process improvements we've been able to identify and include sales service and back-office functions.
To continue our new product focus 2012 R&amp;D spending is unaffected.
And finally we are closely examining our production footprint to identify opportunities to further consolidate and eliminate underutilized assets.
We've made good progress over the past few years with restructuring but as the industry continues to evolve we need to have the flexibility to reshape ourselves as well.
While I will not elaborate on this important review I will acknowledge that it is underway today and we're making good progress towards beginning implementation actions shortly.
Some of the projects being considered will extend beyond 2012 and are expected to generate margin recovery savings for many years to come.
Now finally I'd like to address the question I received about a competitor's public remark concerning my forthcoming retirement.
Beginning in 2008 Xerium began to conduct a comprehensive annual succession-planning process which enables us to examine our talent pool at many levels of the organization and compare it to the challenges and strategies the company has before it.
I began to discuss my personal career aspirations and timeline with our board during this process approximately a year ago.
The strategic challenges the company faces today while different from those we faced in 2008 when I joined the company will require stable leadership for many years to come.
The board and I carefully considered leadership alternatives for the company as I am now past the age at which most CEOs have already retired.
Late last year we agreed on our plan to seek my replacement and announced that plan as an 8-K we issued in mid-December.
To facilitate this leadership transition process we've retained the services of the same recruiting firm that brought me into the company.
While the recruiting work is underway and interviews are ongoing I can tell you that as of today no candidate has been selected no offers have been extended and no timeline for the transition of responsibilities exists nor will one exist until the right person is identified.
Meanwhile there's no change in our strategy of rightsizing the company to position our assets where they can contribute the best bringing out new products to grow share and improve profitability and using a portion of our free cash flow to extinguish our outstanding debt as we did just a few weeks ago.
This concludes the prepared remarks for this morning.
Tisha we're ready for questions from our attendees.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Kevin Cohen with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Stephen I'm wondering if you could give us a little bit of color just in terms of the production uptick you guys are expecting in 2H versus 1H.
Any sort of order of magnitude you could furnish around that? We're looking for very strong recovery in the second half.
Most of the paper company executives that I've spoken to and my sales teams have spoken to think the second half will be strong.
And I would rather than give you a specific forecast -- I think the parallel was more towards the first half of 2011.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess in terms of the price behaviors seen out there broadly in the marketplace you talked about the difficulty of getting price hikes.
Are you seeing price cutting out there? Or is it just simply more stable and price hikes are struggling to get traction? Kevin that's a great question.
We are seeing varying behavior by region and by product.
The Rolls segment is very competitive right now.
The number of rolls that are being recovered is going down as customers extend the life of their rolls.
And we've looked at this very carefully to see whether this is going to be a structural change or continues a structural change and we really see that it does.
This is -- as new roll products have better wear characteristics the rolls run longer the number of rolls to cover each year is diminished and that makes the market extremely competitive.
So I think the major roll covering companies -- and of course there are primarily 3 of us: there's Metso Voith and ourselves.
I think each of us is looking at our footprint and our ability to cycle product through our facilities more quickly and hence the question of do you need all this facility? On the PMC side pricing behavior seems to be quite mature.
We're not seeing any odd behavior there.
There've been a few rare instances of offers of consignment inventory.
And I think most folks would understand that that's not something that Xerium favors at all.
We think that's a bad practice so we're happy to see that it's not prevalent but we're keeping our ears piqued if you will about whether it's going to increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly before getting back in the queue I guess in terms of the mix issues that started to emerge perhaps more so in 2H '11.
When you think about the mix on a blended basis in 2012 do you think that'll mirror what we saw in 4Q '11? Or would you think that progressively sort of weakens if you will from a margin standpoint given the growth in Asia and your comments earlier about Europe still being a bit of a struggle at least in 1H '12? Mix is a very complicated subject for us.
So let's start at the highest level and that's mix between segments.
As I indicated the Rolls segment became about 3 points of mix stronger than it had been historically.
We see that basically driven by SmartRoll and driven by the expansion in Asia.
We've done very well with our roll covering plants in Asia.
And we've got a terrific management team over there.
They're really customer focused and of course the Asian market is growing as more indigenous production occurs and more new machines are being built in Asia by indigenous producers as opposed to Voith or Metso or even Andritz.
So I think you'll see Rolls maintain a very strong position and that moves us into the geographic question.
And of course Europe is really struggling.
I'm constantly being reminded that Greece is only 3% of the European GDP and Greece is not going to wag the dog if you will.
But it sure feels that way from here that there's a lot of trepidation in the minds of our customers about where that economy is going.
So I don't expect Europe to affect any kind of a rapid recovery.
The strength we're seeing in the United States or particularly in North America appears to be very solid and is expected to continue.
I don't expect very much from South America.
The most recent forecast we've seen I said 2.7% tonnage increase.
As of November of last year it was actually negative 0.1% and then in December it's 1 to a positive 0.1% for the year.
So I think the regions are going to look very much like they did in the fourth quarter with Europe low North America dominant and then Asia.
And then that brings us into the product families inside of clothing particularly with forming press and drying.
We see press as very strong.
In the second half of last year we fired up the remaining capacity that we had in Australia and we have completed now the startup of all the equipment in South America.
So we see press as very strong.
Forming is a little bit like Rolls in that the new forming products last longer.
Customers are squeezing every bit of life out of them if they can so I think we'll see a gradual mix shift there to more forming and less -- or I'm sorry more press and less forming.
So I know that's a complicated answer but I think this is very much a dynamic.
And the one driver we have throughout all of this is the introduction of the new products which -- I didn't give you the statistic but it's 51.2% of revenue in the fourth quarter driven by new products.
Now that compares to 19% in 2008 so you can see the enormous product line turnovers we've had.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly I guess in terms of the cost of the production curtailments did the company articulate a number around the sort of opportunity cost or the EBITDA impact in 4Q from that? And then I guess a continuation of that do you expect any further production curtailments in the first half of the year? Or do you think that was sort of a onetime event? Kevin the production curtailments that we put in place in the fourth quarter accounted for approximately 2 points of the margin in the fourth quarter.
The bulk of that has gone through in the fourth quarter.
There is some impact that goes hung up on the balance sheet then comes through but the vast majority of that is going through in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> And now you're referring to gross margins Cliff or EBITDA margins? Gross margins.
Your next question comes from the line of T.R.
Demeki [ph] with Sidoti.
I guess just -- most of my questions have been answered but I guess overall I mean do you guys view this sort of  second half of '11 as a cyclical decline in the paper industry? And to the extent that you can can you talk about whether these changes your plans as far as reducing capacity to match demand? Let's see if we can deal with the first one.
We've been looking very hard at the paper cycle.
And it appears to us that historically the cycle in the paper industry had been a 7-year cycle.
And as we came out of the recession one of the things that folks I think in the supply side to the paper industry were concerned about was whether there would be an over-exuberance of rebound.
Whether the recession would end with a V-shape or maybe a lazy L.
And I think what we're seeing is more of a W that we had a really really strong recovery in the second half of '10 the early part of '11.
I mean the market was booming as we indicated.
And now that -- and part of that was driven by inventory replenishment.
It was of course impossible to predict how much inventory customers would actually rebuild so when they stopped that process at about 85% to 90%.
And I want to point out that customer inventories have been stable now for the last several months but we're not expecting to see any additional buildup or rebuilding or any draw down.
But when the inventory accumulation slowed and then paper demand slowed with the European crisis we got the first start of the down cycle.
We think that cycle is now 3 years and that we're about 12 to 14 months into the down cycle.
So as indicated in the first quarter of 2012 I mean things haven't changed a great deal from the latter part of 2011.
But we are anticipating they're going to turn back up.
We've modeled the shape of this down to the last one.
The amplitude of course is quite a bit less but the shape is not too dissimilar.
So we're thinking second half looks quite a bit healthier.
Sure.
Terrific.
Can you talk a little bit about gross margin I guess in Q4? I know you listed several factors I mean I guess which ones -- and maybe I missed it earlier and I apologize for that but which ones are sort of more important? And then just going forward the way we should think about it a little bit gross margin.
Let me give you some numbers on that T.R.
[ph] The biggest issue was the absorption in the plant production costs.
That cost about 1.8 points in the gross margin.
The second biggest issue was in Q4 of 2010 we had a recovery on some -- on the sales some slow-moving inventory that had previously been fully reserved.
That accounted for about 1.1 points.
The next piece is 2 of the mix issues that Stephen referred to earlier.
The first being on the Rolls -- I'm sorry and the regional side of the business accounted about 1 point of margin; and the second being the product mix between the types of products whether it be press felts forming dryers on the clothing side or rubber rolls versus spread roll versus mechanical services on the Rolls side.
Those issues cost about 0.8 points of margin.
And then on the material side it's about 0.7.
So that -- if you total that up that would be 5.4 points of margin the total change from quarter-to-quarter Q4 '10 to Q4 2011 was 5.7 points so that's the majority of the issue there.
Okay.
Great.
And then just going forward I mean is there anything new that we should be paying attention to for gross margin for first half of '12 or...
Well of course we're not satisfied with how the business performed in the fourth quarter.
We were faced with the headwinds that we described but nonetheless we are not going to continue to run at those kinds of levels.
So we're attacking material costs -- as I mentioned we're attacking the labor cost by doing selective reductions.
And we're looking very hard on our footprint and how we can reshape the company reshape the manufacturing footprint to more closely match what we consider to be a new reality.
And of course that has a very strong bearing on where products are made and how many factories we have.
Our improvements in yield from our existing factories has been so dramatic that in some product lines certainly not press felts but in others we find ourselves with a situation that we have excess capacity.
We didn't have that excess capacity in 2008 but because of the process improvements and the standardization that the new products have allowed us to create in the factories we now have an opportunity to take a fresh look.
The other dimension I think that's changed is how quickly we can process Rolls through our plants.
Some years ago lead time on a roll would've been 3 months and we can comfortably turn rolls now in 4 weeks or less.
I'm aware of situations where we're turning a roll from customer receipt to shipment in less than 2 weeks.
And that begins to enable us to look at the geography of where our plants are located and whether we want to keep that number of plants and that spread.
And last year we closed a roll plant in Canada.
We have not seen any loss in volume as a result of that closure.
All of those products are being covered in other facilities that we've got so we don't -- some of those old sacred cows are gone and you should expect to see us react with that new data in this year in the first half if not the first quarter.
Terrific.
As far as the SmartRoll I think you mentioned in the release 7% -- you might have mentioned the 7.6% of roll -- SmartRoll being 7% of roll cover revenue.
I don't know if you can talk about sort of what -- where we can expect that to go to.
And if you can great if not can you just maybe talk about what -- sort of customer acceptance of it or what they -- people are saying about it I guess.
Well I'm happy to do that.
We are well over the 200 orders that we announced as of January.
That bookings rate continues to go.
What we've learned and I think the marketing term is sticky the product's is very sticky.
Customers who get it like it.
We have customers now plural customers who have more than 10 SmartRolls in their fleets.
We have 14 or 16 proven applications in paper mills.
We're running tissue machines in China.
We're running pulp machines in South America.
We're running printing and writing in North America and Europe.
And we are -- SmartRoll has now been deployed everywhere.
The numbers that I gave you were 7.6% of roll covers which inside the Rolls segment -- or is the dominant portion of our business and then 5% -- approximately 5% of all Rolls segment revenue.
Since the product essentially becomes an annuity once the customer has this they continue to replace it.
It will over time -- SmartRoll over time will grow to be a very significant portion of the entire Rolls segment revenue.
And we of course have not stopped developing new versions of SmartRoll.
We announced I think it was number 4.0 last spring which opened up a whole new family of products.
We've got 5.0 getting close to release.
That's a very exciting one -- or a very exciting version.
We're not trying to keep up with Apple in our rollout of products but SmartRoll just opens a lot of dimensions.
The most exciting -- or one of the most exciting attributes of SmartRoll right now is there is no -- as I indicated in my speech there is no commercially proven alternative.
There is one other company trying but every place they've got their version -- and I think there are 2 of them in North America we've got SmartRolls running and the SmartRolls are the ones that are being used.
So we're feeling very good about that whole process.
And I think the product has real legs to it.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Rich Kus with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the pressures that you're seeing on the input cost side of things.
I mean I know you talked 12% 14% type raw material cost inflation in 2011.
And are you expecting something similar for 2012? Well Richard we certainly -- let's start with we certainly hope not.
Oil prices in 2011 jumped from $70 a barrel to $100 and we were fundamentally able to offset all of that except in the fourth quarter when production slowed down.
We're able to offset all of that by our yield and yield improvements which if you did that quick calculation on dryers we went from 50% yield to 70%.
That's a 40% improvement in yield in 3.5 years or 3 years.
We see our yield improvement programs as continuing and really getting traction this year in the forming side where we've gone from 50% to 60%.
Oil sitting at about $106 $107 right now.
It looks to be holding.
Absent some macroeconomic situation I don't see anything that's going to force it up a lot more than that.
So I think we're going to be able -- on the yarn side we're going to be able to offset those costs by productivity and yield.
On the rubber side where it was 12.7%.
There we're a little bit of a slave to the oil or to the auto industry.
What I can tell you is that we are consolidating our rubber purchasing.
We have historically purchased on a spot-buy basis.
Each of the plants has gone out and gotten their own.
We're now netting and consolidating to do that.
We're centralizing our mixing in fewer locations and then sending the mixed rubber to the plants.
We're exploring group buying with a partner company we have in India in order to try to offset that.
And we are looking at material substitutions as well in order to slow that down.
In the fourth quarter -- toward the end of the fourth quarter we saw rubber prices nose over so the effective increase would not have been 12.7% but perhaps somewhere around 8%.
We're watching very closely now.
We're getting monthly commodity price indices and consider moving to -- trying to get to weekly to buy on the spot side there but -- so long answer to that question I think we can offset the oil prices at this point.
Rubber remains the challenge but we are all over trying to get lower rubber pricing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you guys talk about your cost reduction initiatives and benefits you expect to see.
I mean what kind of magnitude are we talking in 2012? Richard I don't feel comfortable at this point describing that.
As soon as that program is locked in we'll have something public to say about it.
But I will tell you that it is significant.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pace with Stone Harbor Investments.
Just a couple of quick questions on volumes.
Do you know what the volume trends were in the fourth quarter in your -- in the clothing and roll covers businesses please? Volume trends fourth quarter.
Rolls were slow pretty much slow everywhere with the exception of Asia.
I mean in our remarks we -- Rolls sales were down 5.1% in the quarter Q4-over-Q4 and PMC was actually up 4.2%.
But in terms of volume? Yes in terms of volume.
That's revenue.
In terms of square meters and kilograms is that what you're asking John? Yes.
I mean obviously sales is the function of volume price in FX right? So just what's sort of the volume impact there? North America volumes were very strong.
I can't give you the quantity specifically of square meters or kilograms produced but the North American market in terms of tonnage actually -- or in terms of total square meters produced of forming fabric went down our volumes went up appreciatively.
Not double digit but about 5% increase in forming fabric square meters in kilograms and that's how we sell press felts -- or we measure press felts.
The market went up less than 1 point and we went up more than 4 points.
Europe production square meters in kilograms was down in the range of 4% to 5%.
And in terms of the Asia impact? Asia was actually very strong in the fourth quarter particularly driven by the recovery -- surprising recovery in Japan.
Our largest single customer in Japan is Nippon Paper at the Ishinomaki Mill and if you've been reading anything about the one-year anniversary of the tsunami you'll know that the Ishinomaki Mill was a few hundred feet off the ocean in the harbor at Sendai and took a 35-foot wave.
Nobody thought that mill would come back.
I was there in January.
They had 3 of their 8 machines running.
And they had purchased substantial amounts of fabric from our Japanese plant in order to facilitate the start up of the other 5 machines.
So Japan really dominated Asia in the latter part of the fourth quarter.
That won't continue in January -- has not continued in January or February because now that mill is -- has got the material they need.
They're loading the machines and their biggest struggle today is trying to find people to run the equipment.
China of course had the New Year's and that slows them.
And they're always slow in the first quarter.
Okay.
So the fourth quarter for Asia was like any sort of order of magnitude? Up what like 10% 15% something like that? Well our total sales in Asia for 2011 grew 20%.
And fourth quarter was not inconsistent with that.
Okay.
So [indiscernible] percentage.
And then I guess in terms on the fabric [ph] on the Rolls side? Strong Asia soft Europe.
As Cliff pointed out negative 5.1% on Rolls.
And that is very typical of an industry slowdown here.
And the first thing that happens is that Rolls don't get sent out for recovering and they get inventoried.
Rolls are removed from machines when they were out and they just sit next to the machine.
Okay.
About 5.1% is predominantly volume then? That was volume yes.
All volume okay.
And just a couple of questions about booking trends going back to Slides 3 4 and 5.
If you were to extend those lines out through January and February kind of when you look -- looking at where you were in November '11 December '11 where would January and February kind of lie in that area? And what would be the trend? Well that's a very subtle question about our first quarter performance.
And I think the way we...
Not so subtle but.
I think the way we address that is to say that the headwinds that we saw in the fourth quarter have continued into Q1.
And I think that our customers my sense is -- and what I'm being told is our customers are being very cautious.
All of them expect strong second half or strong recovery.
They're all not sure or none of them are sure when that recovery actually will begin.
Okay.
So you haven't seen a significant pickup then in other words.
It's confirmed that we've not seen a significant pickup yes.
Okay okay.
That's fair.
And final question the South America capacity that's being added.
What sort of order of magnitude in terms of capacity and percentage of gross add to your clothing business? And how do you expect that to kind of ramp-up as you move into 2012? Sure.
The capacity that we added in South America is specifically around our press felt business.
Comparing capacity today to capacity in South America on press felts specifically comparing today's capacity to where it was 2 years ago we have increased it about 225% so well over double.
And that capacity is fully online today.
Okay.
And where is that running? That's running at 100% then? We're in the mid-90% utilization of that factory today.
Okay.
All right.
We saw a pretty good ramp of that though in the fourth quarter there.
You did on press felts.
And our overall press felt capacity for the company which has been a real challenge for us starting with the recovery from the recession primarily driven by demand for new products.
Our overall press felt capacity is up about 25%.
Your next question comes from the line of Nicholas Ware with Henderson.
Quick question.
I think most of my questions has been answered but I'm interested in paper production volumes and stock levels for your customers whether you can give us some color on that.
Sure happy to.
We access inventory levels in a couple of different ways.
The first is by using industry association data which I'm not allowed -- which we as a member of the association are not allowed to publish but we use that as the baseline.
And then we go out and have 52 target customers whose inventories of paper machine clothing we physically count.
And that spans Europe and North America spans every grade of paper.
And in the prepared remarks we indicated that we saw customers at 85% to 90% of January 2007 level.
And that's the means by which we do that.
Now customer inventories have been stable for about the last 5 months and that's the -- that also mentioned in the remarks was the end of the inventory rebuilding.
So it looks like if you will as the demand softened -- as we saw demand and demand softened it actually was bringing demand more in line with consumption.
The rebuild of the inventories had ended.
So now we're really looking at structural growth.
And paper tonnage production for 2012 according to RISI the forecasting organization is supposed to increase 2.7% but that's different around the globe with Europe slightly down North America about flat Asia up strongly and South America up 2.4%.
2.7% true growth in volume would be very good for us.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
Gentlemen please proceed with any closing remarks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for spending your time with us this morning.
We look forward to speaking with you about our Q1 results in the early part of May.
Thank you very much and have a good day.
Bye-bye now.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation you may disconnect your lines.
Good day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies First Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call on May 9 2012.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to the Xerium Technologies first quarter 2012 financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Stephen Light the CEO Chairman and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Stephen will start the discussion this morning with an update on our progress and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the line for questions.
The Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were announced in the press release after market closed on Tuesday May 8 2012.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
We have also posted a slide presentation on our website which we will refer to during this conference call.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2012.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Tuesday's press release in our slide presentation and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represents our view as of today May 9 2012 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore we believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release and in our materials which are each posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Stephen.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
Generally little has changed since our 2011 annual earnings call just 8 weeks ago as conditions in the global paper industry continue to be significantly differentiated by region and paper grade.
Our chief concern continues to be our largest market Europe where paper production remains depressed as a result of the region's overall poor economic health.
The most recent paper producer association data from the Confederation of European Paper Industries or CEPI report in February shows cumulative production tonnage to be about 3.6% below last year and 3.7% below January of 2012.
The hardest hit segment of the European market has been graphic upgrades where year-to-date production is 6.3% below last year's cumulative output while the best area sanitary products or what we would typically call the tissue segment in North America experienced growth of just 2.7%.
However in what we consider a positive turn as the first quarter developed our European customers increased orders steadily throughout the quarter to a level substantially above the end of 2011.
We view this pattern as indicative of their slowly increasing optimism about the future.
Each month of the quarter showed sequential increases in orders and while it is obviously too early to declare that the European market has turned we're more optimistic than we were just 3 months ago.
Meanwhile paper production tonnage in North America decreased just slightly but our orders remain well ahead of a good 2011 fourth quarter for both Rolled and Paper Machine Clothing.
In North America PMC orders increased more than 30% and roll orders increased 14.5% from the fourth quarter of 2011.
In South America our deliveries remain subdued due to low backlogs for domestic consumption.
However once again new orders for Paper Machine Clothing improved more than 20% from the fourth quarter of 2011 while Rolls remained flat.
We believe this market behavior is consistent with our internal outlook for the second half of 2012 being much better than the first half of the year.
Sales continue to be solid in Asia.
Rolls were strong but PMC was a little softer than expected as China's slowing growth rate made itself evident.
This actually helped our margins as we earn more on Asian rolls produced and sold than Asian PMC.
Meanwhile Asian PMC orders increased month-over-month throughout the quarter.
Of course orders were also slowed in the first quarter of 2012 as China celebrated its New Year's holiday.
And also as a consequence of our major Japanese customers who pre-ordered in last year's fourth quarter for the resumption of production in mills damaged by the tsunami last year.
On a consolidated basis Rolls segment orders increased 5.2% over the previous quarter while consolidated paper machine clothing orders increased 6%.
While I'm pleased with this initial indication of an upturn beginning our bookings are still about 13% below 2011's first quarter bookings rate.
So there's a lot of room for growth.
Meanwhile paper machine clothing inventories as measured by our various industry associations data and also our own direct piece count of a large sample of our customers remains in the mid-90% level as compared to January 2007 the benchmark period we use.
This is more than 20% below the peak reached in November 2008.
I consider this a healthy level and I'm not concerned about experience that repeat of the protracted delays in demand for our products as a result of gorged customer inventories when the paper production resumes in earnest.
As Cliff will share with you very shortly the quarterly results were about what we expected them to be coming off softened orders in the fourth quarter of last year and our outlook for 2012's market.
Now Cliff will provide you the specific details regarding our Q1 performance.
Thank you Stephen.
I'd like to start off by referring you to the sales chart on Page 9 of the slides.
Sales for the quarter decreased 6.1% to $134.4 million from $143.2 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Currency exchange rate differences accounted for 1.7% of the decline while sales decreased 4.4% from an operational standpoint compared to the first quarter of 2011.
This operational decline was comprised of a 3.9% decline in our clothing business and a decline of 5.3% in our Rolls business.
From a regional standpoint more than the entire operating sales decline was directly attributable to weakness in the European paper market.
On a sequential basis sales for the first quarter decreased 7.5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 as currency exchange differences accounted for half-a-point of decline in sales while sales volume decreased 7%.
Once again the decline in volumes was more than entirely due to weakness in European markets.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales declined to 34.6% of sales in the first quarter of 2012 from 37.7% of sales in the first quarter of 2011 largely as a result of unfavorable absorption of production costs in the first quarter of 2012 related to reduced European market demand.
And two unfavorable margins as a result of disproportionately higher sales of lower margin products in our Rolls business.
Specifically our North American Rolls business experienced higher sales in mechanical services and new roll cores which include costs related to steel cores that are billed as a pass-through item to the customer.
These mechanical products and services earn lower margins than our traditional roll covered products but we accept them as a means to secure the more profitable cover work they accompany.
The growth in our mechanical services business within the Rolls segment has been spurred by our customers increasing amount of maintenance work they outsource.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 gross margin dollars declined 7.5% while gross margin as a percentage of sales remained flat at 34.6% of sales as volume related unfavorable factory overhead in our operations in the first quarter of 2012 effectively matched the unfavorable factory overhead related to the inventory reduction efforts we initiated in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Moving on to the chart on Slide 10.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs increased 0.8% to $40.3 million for the first quarter of 2012 from $40 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Foreign currency exchange rates provided a favorable variance of 1.6% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
The remaining unfavorable variance to the prior year's first quarter is primarily related to onetime costs associated with our CEO's impending retirement and the ongoing search for his replacement and the relocation of our Japanese sales office.
These onetime costs were partially offset by a gain on the sale of land in Brazil.
Restructuring cost increased to $4 million in the first quarter of 2012 from $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The increase was largely attributable to a termination of a sales agency agreement in Europe.
The cost incurred to terminate the sales agency arrangement were $3.6 million of which $3 million was paid in the second quarter of 2012 and $0.6 million will be paid in the third quarter of 2012.
The termination of this agreement will result in annual net savings of $1.4 million after consideration of ongoing personnel costs to augment our in-house sales force.
Income from operations declined in the first quarter of 2012 $2.2 million from $13.8 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Lower European sales volume and gross margins and increased restructuring costs drove the unfavorable earnings results.
Net interest expense improved 2.6% to $9.6 million in the first quarter of 2012 from $9.9 million in the first quarter of 2011.
This decline in interest expense reflects lower current interest rates and debt balances net of higher deferred financing cost amortization in the current year's first quarter.
The decrease in interest rates and the increase in deferred financing cost amortization are the result of the refinancing in May 2011.
Cash interest expense in the first quarter of 2012 was $8.6 million compared to $9.7 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Income tax expense declined to $0.7 million in the first quarter of 2012 from $3.4 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The reduction in income taxes reflects the reduction in our pretax results from income of $4.1 million in the first quarter of 2011 to a pretax loss of $6.9 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Our overall effective tax rate for the period presented reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
Net income and diluted earnings per share decreased to a net loss of $7.5 million or $0.50 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2012 from net income of $0.6 million or $0.04 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
Page 11 of our slide deck displays our adjusted EBITDA results for the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides us with the liquidity and financial performance measure of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2012 decreased to $18.8 million from $26.1 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The data on Slide 12 shows the minor improvement in trade working capital to $145 million in the first quarter 2012 from $145.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The slight improvement reflects $2.4 million of lower accounts receivable as days sales outstanding improved to 55 days from 57 days.
And a $1.2 million of increased accounts payable as days costs outstanding improved to 58 days from 52 days.
These improvements were largely offset by increased inventory of $3.4 million.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period ended March 31 2012 totaled $3.3 million.
We currently expect 2012 capital expenditures to be approximately $30 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $10.2 million in the first quarter of 2012.
During the first quarter of 2012 we repaid $13.2 million of our bank term loans.
At quarter end we had $38.3 million of cash on hand and $21.9 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
Thanks Cliff.
As we announced during our 2011 earnings call we expect that customer demand in 2012 to resemble that of 2011 only in reverse with the first portion of the year slow and the second half increasing.
The gradual recovery in order bookings in PMC and Rolls we've already seen in the first quarter of 2012 and the most recent communications from our economic forecasters gives us confidence that we have the correct outlook for the year barring any unforeseen events.
Consequently the immediate challenge we face in 2012 while we drive to increase revenues ahead of the recovery of customer demand in the second half is how to further reduce our cost structure.
As we consider the 4 largest cost increase drivers of 2011 which were one raw material inflation; two currency swings; three regional mix swings toward Asia and four products mix changes we see a similar pattern emerging this year.
We all know that oil prices have risen again and these increases will filter through our supply chain into yarn pricing within the next 6 months.
Consequently as we progress in 2012 our operating teams have redoubled their efforts to improve production yield in our PMC manufacturing plants even further.
We're working closely right now with our yarn providers to find means to reduce the prices we pay by examining their value streams and where non oil related costs creep into their processes such us their scrap and yield rates.
To the extent we can collaborate with them to improve their yields we should see an immediate benefit in reduced purchase prices.
Our regional sales expectation foresee further ships into Asia as growth there is forecasted to be in the range of 4% to 6% or higher depending on the specific type of paper being sold.
To further improve the profitability of our Asian operation we are increasing the number of different product offerings in our Asian Rolls segment and in particular accelerating the penetration of spreader rolls and SMART Roll into that region.
You may recall from our last call that we established the spreader roll rebuilding facility in China inside one of our 2 existing roll plants.
This facility has been well accepted by local customers as an alternative to other local and less reliable suppliers.
Now that we've demonstrated excellent SMART Roll performance at tissue mills in China our SMART Rolls have established the good reference installations we needed to promote the product in that region.
As a consequence our first order for our SMART Roll in Australia has been received.
I'm quite optimistic that this product will take off in Asia in 2012.
As shown on our new product charts our new product sales continue their steady growth with Q1 2012 setting yet another new record of 53.4% of our revenue derived from products developed in the prior 5 years.
Monthly results within the quarter showed March at 56.1% nearly achieving our goal of 60% which we set way back in 2008.
We've recently conducted an internal review of a sample of new products with real market experience to verify the contribution of these new products to our profit margins.
And I'm pleased to announce that approximately 75% of the sample we analyzed showed a materially significant increase in gross margins versus the product they replaced.
The one product that did not increase its gross margin versus the product it replaced was heavily influenced by the rise in raw material costs we endured in 2011.
Over the last 4 years we've substantially reduced variable operating costs through greatly increased material yields in our weaving facilities which were up nearly 30% in our dryer business and trending similarly in our forming product line.
We've simplified and sped up old processes.
We now share capacity across divisions and ocean we reduced cost by shortening work change downtime by as much as 75% through product standardization which dramatically increased our weaving capacity with negligible CapEx.
We've reduced total working capital by 25.4% since 2008 and we've substantially reduced headcount.
We've closed several facilities we no longer needed and transferred the work areas where we could do it less expensively.
Notably we've changed the paradigm that a roll plant needs to be closed to its customers by streamlining our role servicing processes and management.
We've consolidated many back-office functions to reduce regional duplication.
But now that so much of our remaining addressable costs are fixed and are related to buildings and geographic dispersion resulting in organization duplication we must aggressively reduce these fixed costs to achieve a step function improvement in Xerium's results.
As we've examined the paper industry's production forecast for the next several years we see the gradual migration toward Asia continuing.
While we've carefully considered and will continue to consider alternatives to develop the appropriate manufacturing capacity in Asia to add to our existing Japanese and Australian facilities none that we've analyzed as of today will help us restore our historical margin within an acceptable timeframe or is a better use of cash than reducing our leverage.
So we've concluded that we will continue to use our existing plant assets to satisfy Asia's growing market requirements for the foreseeable future.
As a result we've launched a cross functional team aimed at significantly reducing our fixed costs to restore historical margins and further simplify our business processes.
One challenge the team is addressing is to determine the optimal number and location of facilities we currently occupy relative to our customer needs and capacity requirements and their future expectations.
Another work element will be defining and implementing how we improve our information management processes to reduce the aforesaid duplication.
More details about these significant initiatives will be provided over the next few months and in subsequent earnings calls and filings as detailed work plans are prepared.
Our modeling shows that our operating cash flows can fund the activities we are reviewing and considering.
While we continue to repay our debt as it is scheduled.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready for questions.
Stacy may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of TR Dimechkie with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> A few questions.
I guess based on what a competitor recently reported for their top line I think people might be surprised by your revenue performance.
Can you touch upon the revenue down only 6% year-over-year? Anything you talk about whether it's pricing or unit volume just any color would be great.
Well we don't spend a great deal of time listening to competitor earnings releases but in this case we did.
And we're pleased to have -- to note that our revenue did not sort of a double negative we're pleased that our revenue didn't fall as much as theirs I mean I would have much preferred to report a growth but we believe that our revenue performance is the result of our geographic mix our new product introductions success and market share gains.
I mean ultimately at the end of the day customers are going to buy from the supplier whose products deliver to them the best results and we think over the success of the new products over the last 4 years as exemplified by the adoption rate is speaking volumes about the performance of the products on the paper machines.
So we are optimistic about the second half volume coming back.
We're comfortable with the market dynamics right now of the various competitors as exemplified by the control of inventory which is a really -- such a significant difference between today and the end of 2008.
It seems that everybody understands the danger of inventory accumulation.
So as the industry comes back in the second half I expect that all of us will profit from that.
We would hope to profit incrementally once again because of the new products.
LLC</strong> Terrific.
And then just going forward I mean how do you guys think about European overcapacity both in paper and in PMC? Well there's clearly overcapacity on the paper production side.
I think it is perhaps overblown or the view of the overcapacity is overblown by the fact that Europe is struggling so mightily with all industries.
Data that I read spoke to GDP decline of about 2.5% in the fourth quarter for overall European GDP but the industrial side was down almost 8% now that might be off by plus or minus 1 point or 2.
But the industrial side really got hammered.
When you think about the application of paper particularly in the industrial segment packaging and what have you I think we're seeing an artificially suppressed market appetite right now.
Of all the segments of paper production in Europe packaging is the healthiest in terms of growth rates other than tissue.
But tissue is frankly so small as to not really move the needle.
I expect we'll see further consolidations.
I don't think you'll see a major dropout.
It will continue to be incremental led by 1 000 cuts if you will.
Our share gains and I'm going to look back to my comment earlier our share gains driven by new product acceptance are helping us absorb that.
I think perhaps better than others.
LLC</strong> Great.
On the cost side it seems that you guys don't get enough credit for the variable cost that you've taken out of the business over the last several years.
Can you give us any color on the kinds of programs that you guys are working on now and what can we expect I guess going forward? Well that's a very insightful comment.
Let me give you my view of what's really going on here.
We spent the last 4 years squeezing the variable cost out of the business.
We've done it through yield we've done it through machine productivity but a classic example of the result of that related to our improvements in capacity which I mentioned our yield has increased so much in segments of our business that we have looms that are now turned off and have not run in months and we see no forecasted requirement because we can make that production on other machines that we also have.
So an operator today or yesterday who would have been running 3 looms is today running 2 looms.
We have significant material savings we have reduced cycle time we have reduced inventory but the marketplace the investment community cannot see the improvement in labor because the man is still there.
The only way you can ultimately get those savings to show up is get rid of the fixed costs.
And that speaks to the programs that we're looking at in terms of facilities examination what are we going to do with the various facilities we have? How will we bring to the bottom line the fixed cost savings that have already been -- that are there but are not yet recognized because the footprint hasn't changed.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Cohen with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess in terms of the existing product portfolio i.e.
excluding the new products.
What type of changes are you seeing out there in terms of market share just given the tougher operating backdrop if any changes really? We're very careful about sharing market share data but I guess I'd be comfortable telling you that in specific regions we've seen as much as a 10% increase that's not 10 points but as much as a 10% increase in market share that is pretty much a steady drumbeat in growth.
The adoption rates -- or market share to us appears to be directly related to new product penetration and the regions and product segments where the new products have penetrated the best we're getting the most rapid gain in share.
We did not -- last year for example where the North American consumption of forming fabric as measured by square meters actually declined we grew in the face of that overall decline.
And that was all driven by new product penetration.
I'll say what I said in the first answer.
Customers will buy products that support what they're trying to achieve.
And I think the linkage between our development engineers our application engineers or our sales and customer service teams and what the customers are trying to do at the machine is probably as good as it's ever been.
And our product portfolio allows us to customize products without damaging our production yields.
And you'll recall from our conversations over the last couple of years that the underlying standardization of product platforms much like the auto guys tried to do that's really working now.
And we've got a product in the tissue area called formsoft which is absolutely a market leader.
We're working hard to convert more looms over to produce it.
It is a real performance boost for the customer it's a profitability enhancement for us.
And we're at the point now I think we announced our 200th SMART Roll just before the end of the year we're north of 240 now.
So this product is also going extremely well.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's definitely helpful Stephen.
And I guess in terms of -- sort of the downturn cyclically and I guess when you look forward has there been any change in terms of the replacement frequency the sort of the cycle you see there terms of the replacement and refurbishment demand has that really changed or what's your kind of view on that going forward at least.
Well the metric that's used to look at consumption of paper machine clothing versus tons of paper is called specific consumption so that would be a metric of kilograms or square meters per ton.
That measure continues to decline ever so slightly each year.
It's been doing that steadily now for long before I got here I think probably the past 10-plus years it's been gradually declining we're talking about less than a 1% decline.
Typically it's offset by the fact that paper tonnage is growing at 2% to 3%.
We believe that the market dynamic today is really still a response to the downturn of 2009 where in 2009 everybody shed inventory all of our customers shed paper machine inventories which had been overblown in the fourth quarter of 2008.
They cut too far.
What we experienced at the -- sort of as that ended in 2010 and the beginning of '11 was the rebuild now there's a little -- there's a softness in the overall market.
The customers overreact so they cut back dramatically.
I think it's going to take a couple of years before that cycle of replace cutback replace cutback dampens out and we get to a more historical growth rate a little more predictability.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then I guess in terms of the trends in Europe getting sequentially better each month throughout the first quarter what's your sense in terms of where inventories stand today and is there potentially more restocking or do you think inventories are sort of at a balanced level? Well as we indicated in the prepared remarks the inventories are about 90% of January 2007 that's a healthy level.
I think the customer behavior this time has been particularly in Europe this slowdown has been very good.
There's no panic here.
I believe we -- and I don't want to be too optimistic but I think we've passed the bottom of this one and what we saw in the quarter would be improving order pattern I think I'm optimistic and will say I think that is the beginning of the recovery.
It's not going to be a recovery like we saw in 2010 when the thing goes vertical on us.
This will be a little more gradual people are tenuous.
I mean who knows what's going to happen in France for example with the change in government or whether that will materially impact Germany which is the giant in the paper industry in Europe.
But I think customer behavior right now is much more closely coupled to real demand.
The industries that we participate in are more closely coupled to their customers.
I don't think inventories are going to be a big issue.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then lastly I guess when you look ahead to the second half and the view that things should get quite a bit better versus the first half will there be a material working capital build associated with that? And I guess the corollary to that how do you guys feel about your total liquidity position when you factor that into the equation looking ahead to the second half? Well let me address the inventory and Cliff will talk about liquidity.
I don't see a reason in our factories to materially increase trade working capital as production comes up.
Receivables will of course increase during the early part of that recovery and it will look like receivables are going up as a percentage but that's only because of the increased deliveries.
Our inventory turns look terrific.
We've just spent the last 2.5 days in our facility in Starkville Mississippi and I'm delighted to tell you that the inventory turns there are double digit.
Some areas we're seeing 17 some of the process segments we're seeing 17 to 20 inventory turns which is absolutely outstanding.
The transformation in that facility from one that took 16 weeks order to ship to one that can today do it very comfortably in 8 and in a crush in 3 order to ship.
The factory feels pretty empty to me quite frankly.
And I don't see a reason that the plant management down there would see any benefit in filling it back up.
So maybe Cliff can address -- why don't we have Cliff address liquidity? Yes.
From a liquidity standpoint Kevin we're in pretty good shape we're currently sitting on cash of about $41 million as of last night and we have obviously have an untapped revolver that we also have so the company is in pretty good shape from a cash position.
As you remember going to the fourth quarter last year we were trying to hold back or trying to build up the cash reserves just given the impending European downturn that we saw coming.
We've kind of see that abating now and we actually paid down about $12 million of our debt in the first quarter so -- on a voluntary basis.
So we feel like our liquidity position is very strong at the moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Tobin with Roth Capital Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Stephen I guess you had discussed on the last call your transition plans.
I'm curious if there's any update on that? And then also how that may relate to the timing of the strategy with the restructuring activities? Well the restructuring activities or our review of those opportunities let me not formally call them restructuring that has a whole set of obligations associated with it.
Our look at what we do with fixed cost is ongoing.
We are not waiting for anyone to arrive.
The company has a long-term plan this is consistent with that.
In the same vein that we are rolling out the new products and looking at the next markets to penetrate.
So there should be no anticipation of a delay related to or a lack of aggressiveness related to executing on plans as they get solidified pending a CEO transition the work of the board is ongoing we have a fully-developed specification we've got a recruiter an internationally excellent recruiter working on this.
We've looked at some very good candidates we're continuing to explorer those candidates.
We have not picked or anointed anyone at this time but that work is ongoing I'm a participant in that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what is the timeline for your employment agreements it's through the end of this calendar year? No it evergreens.
I was joking with someone the other day that indentured servitude has not ended.
No there's no terminus date on my contract and my obligation and personal commitment to the business is that I intend to support the business as long as this takes.
Please recall I'm a significant shareholder I have a lot invested financially and I have a lot invested personally.
So I'm not headed for the hills anytime soon unless my replacement shows up.
And even when that occurs it will be my great honor to support that transition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good to hear.
And then can you give us a rough breakdown of your geographic markets as far as what percentage of your revenue is -- falls within Western Europe versus North America and Asia? Basically in rough terms Europe and North America are 2/3 of the business.
Asia is probably about 20% at this point in rough terms.
And that's all Asia -- there's a market of -- a lot of people in our industry or people who look at us seem to think that of Asia and China is synonymous and frankly that's not the case.
Our business outside -- our PMC business outside of China is larger than our PMC business within China.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Madia with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions to perhaps tighten up outlook as we look into second quarter here.
I know first quarter it seems like you guys had a little bit of mix issue and had some downtime obviously both of those issues weighed on margins.
How should we be thinking about both of those issues as we look into the second quarter especially I guess with your commentary regarding increased order activity through the first quarter? Insightful questions.
Let's start with the downtime first.
We think we called the fourth quarter just right quite frankly by shutting down and not building inventory.
We think the fourth quarter was at the bottom.
First quarter is slightly up from fourth quarter so downtime will begin to diminish but as the comments -- as our commentary went on we have freed up because of the productivity initiatives we have freed up so much capacity that we need to address what will be long-term idle time of facilities and the only way to do that is to see how many plants you have and where they are and how does that match the demand footprint.
So near term some downtime is going to continue as demand increases into second half the downtime will diminish but we have created incremental capacity through the productivity improvements that will not be satisfied by long-term demand.
So let's shift over then to the outlook.
We don't see a reason to change our view of the second half of the year.
I think there was some confusion on the last call that perhaps what we were describing when we said 2012 would look like 2011 only backwards was that the first part of '12 would be better than the second part of '12 and that's not what we were saying.
We think that you could basically draw a bath tub starting with the beginning of 2011.
The market fell off as 2011 went along it hit bottom in Q4 and Q1 of 2012 and now it starts to come back up.
I'm not expecting a radical change in the second quarter.
I do expect it to be somewhat better than Q1.
I expect Q3 and Q4 to be better yet.
How much better? Well I think to some degree European politics are going to have a real significant -- European and American politics frankly are going to have a real significant play on that.
If Europe doesn't get its collective house together in the next few months the second half is going to be in jeopardy in Europe.
That would have a material impact on mix.
The developed markets are more profitable for us than the developing or emerging markets.
Even with our market share improvements we can't offset the kind of collapse that Europe has experienced.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well it sounds like through yield enhancement the fixed cost issue is kind of a high-class problem.
I know you talked about it a couple of times early on the call.
It sounds like that's next in the queue terms of focusing our net and making some hard decisions on rationalization there.
I mean from a timing perspective is that something that I guess we should expect to here over the coming Qs.
I don't think you'd have to wait that long.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then my final question.
Since you guys voluntarily paid down some debt and I kind of -- as I look at your major cash needs this year interest expense now is run rating around $33 million right now current CapEx is around $30 million maybe there's a small amount of cash taxes what -- I guess what's the company's focus on the use of free cash flow going forward? Is it still going to be focused on de-leveraging? Well we have several levers on cash for the year so for example the $30 million of CapEx is a variable number you'll note we have not spent very much year-to-date and we are going to keep our thumb or our hands close on the throttle there depending on what's happening on the second part of the year.
We have invested we think very appropriately over the last couple years there is no burning platform that demands CapEx today in the business other than about a $15 million maintenance run rate.
So you should not be surprised if in the end of the second quarter we have not reported a lot of CapEx either.
The balance -- the application of free cash flow will be to support the rationalization review that we're doing and also debt reduction.
Those are the 2 absolute unequivocal major applications.
As I indicated you should not anticipate us going into the far east and putting up brick and mortar.
We've looked at that we've reviewed it every way we can possibly do it we've had outside consultants engaged to help us and we just don't see that as a comparable in pay off to the other 2 applications with the primary being reduce debt.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Kus with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked a little bit about the unfavorable mix on the roll cover side of the business is that something that's more of a temporary phenomenon or is that something we should continue to expect going on there? I think half of it Richard would be temporary.
And the half that will be temporary will be the portion that relates to the new core sales that's a situation where papermakers the steel cylinder that our roll covers go on degrades and they need to replace that steel core.
We will then partner with a mechanical fabrication firm they will supply the core.
We use that as a pass-through so we can take a every small margin on that but as you can imagine the cost of that is a large part of the sale.
Those particular types of sales were kind outsized in the past quarters they were much larger than we usually see and that had an impact on the margins.
The other piece of the mix issue has to do with the growing importance of mechanical services particularly in North America where we act as a service shop for the papermakers they will send their roll into us and we will replace bearings and things of that nature.
That cost is a lower margin business for us at this point.
Philosophically what's happening is that the paper companies are trying to reduce their fixed cost by shedding their maintenance departments.
And what we're doing is replacing the maintenance departments in the paper mills.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you guys look about over in Asia and you're putting your technologies into these paper facilities how much of an opportunity do you guys see on the consulting side helping these guys run their facilities better and is that something that could potentially add to revenues as we look forward here? We've made a comment over the last couple of years that we see the customers in Asia as capable as investing in absolutely the most state-of-the-art equipment available but not having the technical skills to operate it at those peak levels.
One of our answers to that is SMART Roll and helping them understand how SMART Roll can through a consulting relationship how SMART Roll can contribute to improving their operations.
We have 2 SMART Rolls today running at tissue mills in China where we're helping them control the machines the feeds speeds pump pressures all of those kinds of things using the SMART Roll input.
So yes consulting represents a significant opportunity to us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you are selling those SMART Rolls into Asia how do the margins compare on the business relative to how it looks when you're selling them here in North America? SMART Rolls are high-margin contributor product.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly with respect to debt pay down is that all expected to continue on the term loan side? Yes.
We're restricted on bond side.
So the term loan is really where the opportunity is.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pace with Stone Harbor.
A couple of quick questions here.
First looking at the European declines year-over-year on Clothing and Rolls down about 4% and 9% respectively on the volumes.
How much of that would you say from what you see in the industry is sort of from the cycle and how much would you say is from inventory de-stock? It was reported last week I think by one of our competitors that they saw what looked to be almost a 10% permanent decline in the European market.
I think I have those numbers about right.
We don't quite see that.
I think there is -- we think there is overcapacity and that there will be gradual structural consolidation going on.
I think the 4% and 9% are really more related to the collapse of the industrial GDP in the fourth quarter.
So in other words you don't see any sort of abatement in that decline rate as we move into 2Q then with respect to like maybe rolling off inventory de-stock? No I think the customers were very mindful of their inventories going into the fourth quarter and reacted appropriately.
I mean they throttled back dramatically in the fourth quarter.
But you may recall from the earlier the call 8 weeks ago that we actually saw the market order rates start to decline mid-second quarter of 2011.
And the paper production index as reported by the CEPI actually went negative in May of 2011 versus 2010.
So I don't think the paper people have built up -- paper producers have built up unreasonable inventory and they certainly have not done that with paper machine clothing of course with rolls there is essentially no inventory accumulation.
There they just shut off their CapEx budgets when they see a slowdown coming.
Okay that's fair.
Second question margins about a 2% margin -- 2-point margin decline in the clothing side of the business about a 5-point margin decline on the rolls side of the business how much of that would you say is related to the mix shift to and how much of that is related to sort of the unfavorable downtime on a year-over-year basis? Yes I would say on an overall basis margins Q1-to-Q1 are down 3 points about close to half of that would be absorption about 1 point of that will be mix and half of that will be new core issue that I mentioned earlier.
The half absorption I'm sorry what was the back half of that? Half would be absorption the other half -- the other point -- a little over point would be mix and of that mix piece about half of that is the new core mix issue that I mentioned earlier as far as sales of those steel cylinders that we have very little margin on.
Okay so you should get some of that back as we move into 2Q and then maybe some -- a little bit of the absorption back then.
We think so yes.
Okay.
And would you say that year-over-year as we move to 2Q then -- because you're improving order rate those decline rates out of Europe should get better in 2Q on a comparable basis.
Well we're certainly seeing signs that there will be improvement whether it's going to improve sufficiently to offset the kinds of declines we saw.
I don't think you'll see a full recovery in Q2.
We think it's going to take into the second half but the trend lines that we're monitoring suggest that it's beginning to come back.
The challenge we face in Europe on rolls is the uncertainty underlying the entire industry.
So the customers are implying to just hang on and wait.
And as they get -- as the roll wears down and it gets critical then we'll get an order for an immediate turnaround.
So it's sort of a double-edged sword when you get that immediate order now you're into an overtime basis so it's -- accelerate stop accelerate stop.
Okay.
And then just another question then I mean historically 2Q has been seasonally stronger for you all than 1Q it seems.
As I look at a baseline to kind of adjust my margins in my model going forward am I better off working off of what you did in 1Q or am I better off at looking  at more of the relative delta year-over-year and working on that basis off of 2Q of 2011 because there's sharply different type of levels there.
Yes if you're trying to...
Working off a 3-point decline year-over-year working off of 1Q margin so I mean where are my better -- is my starting point? I think we're going to be reticent to give you guidance on that but we don't think of the year quite the way our previously reported competitor does and their comments about Q2 to Q4 are we're not going to be able to give you a comparable on that.
Okay.
And then just couple of blocking and tackling just the $4.8 million restructuring charge reserve you built up.
How do you expect it to pay out over the next year or so? As we mentioned we expect about $1.4 million of savings annually and we should be getting those savings ratably beginning -- really beginning in April when we cut the deal.
And when do you expect to pay the cash restructuring charges out? When do I expect to pay the cash restructuring charges? Yes you have about $4.8 million of severance and facility closure cost built up.
Well the charges for the termination of the relationship agreement or the representation agreement are as Cliff reported second quarter and fourth quarter.
It is about $3 million in the second quarter which has already been paid and there's another $600 000 in Q3.
And we're not sure about the severance because that is still to be determined transition date.
Okay.
And then finally input cost inflation like on the yarn side of the things what do you see in the quarter year-over-year and how you're looking at it going forward the rest of the year? Well we're -- I have to tell you I am very surprised to have seen the most recent drop in the oil prices.
I think there's about a 6-month lag in oil prices to yarn.
We saw yarn pricing last year anywhere from 0% to 14% change but we were able to offset all of that with productivity.
I think we're going to -- we may not be quite that successful this year but it also looks like there's going to be enough dynamic in the yarn supply or oil prices that I don't think we're going to see a lot of change in yarn pricing.
Rubber pricing which is the second major contributor we saw bottom out in the fourth quarter of last year.
Right now it started back up.
But relative to the 12.7% increase that we reported throughout 2012 we're still favorable to that.
So it's entirely possible John that by the end of the year with the other programs that we're working with our suppliers on that we'll be able to absorb the material cost inflation this year.
Okay.
So sort of a positive outlook case and maybe we could consider net raw materials could be flat year-over-year? Yes.
I think that's probably a reasonable assumption with what we know today but certainly we're not going to commit and measure ourself against my comment but with what we see today that would be a reasonable assumption.
Stacy we have time for one more if we have one.
Our final question comes from the line of Rich Yu with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Quick question about your covenants your leverage covenants stepped down to 5.25 starting with the quarter ended June 30 are you -- any concerns about this or do you think over the next couple of quarters improving demand and the cost reductions you have plan will -- should help you get through this? Yes.
We expect that we won't have any difficulties with the covenants given the expectations for the market over the balance of the year.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for your very engaged participation.
We look forward to talking to you again about the company at our second quarterly report.
Bye-bye now.
We thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies second quarter 2012 financial results conference call on August 7 2012.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies second quarter 2012 financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Stephen Light CEO Chairman and President of Xerium Technologies and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Stephen will start the discussion this morning with an update on our progress and then we’ll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were announced in a press release after market close on Monday August 6 2012.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
We have also posted a slide presentation on our website which we will refer to during this conference call.
I’d also note that we’ll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects for the company such as our general expectations for 2012.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Legal Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday’s press release in our slide presentation and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today August 7 2012 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures through comparable GAAP numbers are available on our press release and in our materials which are each posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I’d like to turn the call over the Stephan.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s second quarter performance.
Much has occurred during the second quarter that advances our business and we’ll discuss some of that this morning.
When we last spoke in May we were optimistic about the initial signs of Europe’s recovery we were seeing.
However the European crisis continues to linger and the Euro remains depressed so our business in Europe in Q2 was slower than we’d anticipated.
Meanwhile the other markets we serve are stable or growing.
In fact this quarter’s results paint two distinctly different pictures – Europe and the rest of the world – in stark contrast with the rest of the world performing at improving levels while Europe being the one drag we have.
But even with the European crisis continuing we substantially improved our consolidated gross margins by nearly three full percentage points from the first quarter as a result of our cost reduction activities and favorable product mix which partially offset Europe’s below expectation volume.
We also significantly improved our adjusted EBITDA from Q1.
In the quarter we increased consolidated adjusted EBITDA by 35% over Q1’s results and 21% without unusual adjustments on just a 1.5% consolidated revenue increase.
When we look at these results without Europe Xerium posted a 5% volume increase and a very strong 78.4% adjusted EBITDA improvement over the prior quarter without consideration of currency changes.
I want to reiterate that this substantial improvement is a result of our relentless focus on continuously reducing operating expenses improving our product mix particularly in the roll segment and to maximizing returns from the new products we’re developing and selling.
Digging in a little deeper Q2 2012 bookings as shown on Chart 3 posted on our website declined 4.9% from Q1 2012.
Bookings declined 10.6% from Q2 2011 but just 3% at constant currency rates.
The rolls segments bookings shown on Chart 5 performed better than the PMC segment shown on Chart 4 with only a one-half of 1% quarter over prior quarter reduction while clothing declined 7.5% from the prior quarter without adjusting for currency and just 2.2% at constant currency exchange rates.
These bookings decline occurred primarily in Europe.
Regionally we saw very strong Asian order intake of 17.4% with rolls up 34.5% and clothing up 11.6% when compared the prior sequential quarter.
Our customers in Europe remain justifiably concerned about their end markets and they’re doing all they can to hold down their PMC ordering and inventories and they’re stretching the life of their roll covers so they’re ordering is significantly constrained in both segments.
While we remain optimistic that the pressure on European governments to spur growth will eventually drive the European government to a positive set of actions we’ve adjusted our expectations of that market’s recovery lower than we had at the end of Q1.
The amount of potential structural change in Europe after the crisis passes is of course yet to be determined but we’d expect at least some paper production capacity to come out of the region permanently.
However given what we’re seeing in our various forward-looking indicators coupled with our customer interviews we have reason to believe that paper production tonnage according to the most recent CEPI data has bottomed out and is actually beginning to increase from its November 2011 low point.
So to summarize our served markets two of the four geographic regions are growing one is holding stable approximately stable and looks to stay that way into year end.
The direction of the fourth region Europe remains unclear but we remain optimistic that our customers will have to begin ordering clothing roll codes as soon as they deplete their PMC stocks and wear out their rolls.
Further we believe that the increased performance and lower cost per ton of paper production delivered by our new products is proving to be helpful to our customers in their time of crisis and will lead our resurgence along with theirs in Europe.
Comparing our two segments for the entire company our rolls business performed very well in the quarter spurred by strong performances in Asia and North America and favorable product mix.
In contrast to the first quarter of 2012 in Q2 we delivered very few roll covers on new roll cores which are primarily a path through (ph) product for us and as a consequence diluted gross margins.
The consolidated PMC segment showed good EBITDA improvement notwithstanding revenues which were flat to the prior quarter.
Contributing to this performance are more customers shifting toward our higher performing and higher margin new products and further improvements in operating performance in our plants which has seen head count adjusted to the new lower plant operating levels.
I am personally very pleased that new product sales totaled 56.8% in Q2 a new Xerium record and nearly three times that same measurement in 2008.
In the rolls segment new product sales totaled $25.7 million or 53.2% total rolls revenue in the quarter.
New PMC products accounted for $51.8 million or 58.8% of total PMC sales in the quarter.
These are the highest percentages we’ve delivered since we began tracking this metric and give us confidence that we will indeed achieve our 60% goal this year.
And consistent with our long-range product strategy our new product portfolio pipeline remains full.
So in 2012 and beyond we will see continuous new product introductions driving additional market share gains improved pricing and higher gross margins.
Of particular note in the new product arena is a new PMC product we call Formsoft which is specifically targeted at the steadily expanding tissue market for personal care products.
Formsoft is available with our proprietary EnterSTAR low-friction yarns for superior surface finish and long life.
We also continued to deploy more and more SMART rolls with 266 now having been ordered since the product was launched and 231 delivered as of the end of Q2.
Many of our new SMART rolls sales are to customers who already have at least one and are adding to their fleets.
I think these repeat sales are the best proof of the product’s positive impact on their operations.
As of today no commercially available production proven credible alternative exists that provides the accurate timely and useful information SMART roll does.
We look forward to continuing to expand the fleet of SMART rolls and to further the product lines expansions with SMART roll 5.0 due for introduction this month.
With 5.0 paper makers will have a three-dimensional model of real-time press section performance and for the first time we will have a means to bundle customer designed press felt sales and SMART rolls using real-time actual customer machine data.
In this manner we can optimize a paper machine as never before.
I believe that SMART rolls 5.0 is as much of a breakthrough for paper machine performance as was the first SMART roll 1.0 introduced just three years ago.
But a lot more than just new products have been happening in our plants in Q2.
Operational improvements contributing to the favorable second quarter results included our material yield program where the second quarter scored the best combined product yield we’ve experienced since we began tracking the score in 2008.
Of course our yield is boosted by the increasing amount of standardized new products we’re selling our new statistically modeled approach to loom production planning and the CapEx investment we’ve made in weaving machines with enhanced width flexibility.
You may recall from our year-end call that improvements in PMC sales saved us over $5 million in 2011 when yarn pricing jumped.
Yarn is our second-largest expense and our focus on yield improvement is relentless.
Operational improvements also contributed to our positive trade working capital performance where inventories decreased another 3% on a currency adjusted basis and nearly 6.3% unadjusted for currency.
Trade working capital declined to 25.1% of sales versus Q1’s 27% of sales.
In Q2 we reached just $39.1 million of tracked cash the lowest level since May 2009.
Tracked cash is our term for the cash on the balance sheet above which we’d had if we had 50 receivable days 75 payable days excluding payrolls and six inventory turns.
What makes this improvement all the more impressive is that when we developed this metric in 2008 only 15.6% of our revenue was coming from Asia which in general has much longer receivable days and higher inventories than other regions.
In Q2 20.1% of our revenue came from Asia almost 30% more than we had in 2008.
Part of this improvement also relates to our focus on Xerium’s book to bill cycle and our successful efforts to shorten the work cycle in our plants and in our administrative functions.
Another part of this improvement is the result of our transition to consigned raw materials from some of our major yarn suppliers.
Work in process inventories have also tumbled as we have focused on shortened lead times and manufacturing PMC products only to customer orders.
Raw material prices have held steady or declined recently as the key driver of yarn prices crude oil has remained relatively steady.
While we’re pleased with our progress in reducing yarn costs thus far our focus has been mostly on using less yarn per square meter of fabric delivered.
Now with an expanded procurement operation which we staffed in Q2 we are after other areas including yarn recycling where scrap yarn is remelted and returned to us at a much lower price short bobbins for short model runs and alternative low-cost sourcing from global suppliers who are not presently on our supplier list.
As you can see we definitely made some sustainable progress in operations during Q2.
Now I’m going to shift gears and comment on our many public announcements concerning our strategic plant realignment which we call Vision 2015.
And following those remarks Cliff will provide added color to the quarter’s financial results.
At the end of our first quarter call I said that we had reached a point where we were unable to monetize many of our operational improvements because of our fixed overhead structure more specifically our plethora of plants multiple information systems and geographically dispersed support organizations doing the same work for each geographic region.
Our sizable increases in productivity stemming from improved factory management using new continuous manufacturing processes the operational benefits of new product standardization which includes a nearly 20% increase in the weaving capacity owing to the reduction in time-consuming loom setups and our productivity-oriented CapEx improvements created excess capacity for our regional markets even when considering potential surge rates and return to pre-recession demand levels.
So on July 2nd we made a series of public announcements related to Xerium’s Vision 2015 our $48 million plant and operational restructuring program that we’ve begun to execute and which will be completed over the next three and a half years.
In brief we announced that we would use approximately $35 million of internally-generated cash net of asset sales to fund multiple restructuring projects and we’ll use approximately $10 million of our CapEx spending plan to reconfigure our global manufacturing and operational footprint to match our required capacity to be a continuously evolving paper industry.
Within the total cost of $48 million we project approximately $6 million of non-cash impairments.
In order to ensure we remain in full compliance with our credit facility covenant throughout this restructuring program and in recognition of the economic turmoil presently occurring in our European theater of operations we chose this time to obtain an amendment to our term and revolver credit facilities which we smoothly executed in late June.
The benefits of this amendment are: it increases the amount of restructuring expense we can add back to adjusted EBITDA by up to $15 million annually through 2015 consistent with our spending plan’s provision 2015.
The amendment modifies the total debt calculation used in determining leverage covenant compliance or recognizing cash on our global balance sheet in excess of $25 million up to a maximum amount of $25 million.
The amendment increases the leverage covenant limit for six quarters after which it returns to the previous covenant levels and the pre-plan decreasing slope in Q1 2014.
We appreciate the support of our lenders in this amendment which will enable management to stay focused on implementing Vision 2015 to improve the health of the company the value of their credit and the value of the shareholders’ equity.
Our first steps implementing Vision 2015 occurred on July 2nd when we notified employees at our French roll plant and our Argentina press roll plant that we were opening labor force negotiations with their representative according to local labor laws.
These actions affected approximately 80 employees.
We expect to reach a negotiated settlement with these two groups shortly.
Once that has happened the French plant will close and the press felts and fiber cement felts presently produced in Argentina will be transferred to our plants in Brazil.
Meanwhile both plants remain productive customers are continuing to place orders and the affected employees are working their normal shifts.
Owing the country-specific laws and the detailed planning process involved in Vision 2015 we’re not going to be much more specific regarding other contemplated actions.
But to give you just a sense of how comprehensive the operational changes we’re evaluating under Vision 2015 are the actions we currently envision will affect 17 of our 31 manufacturing locations as workload is realigned.
Some of our plants will have work transferred into them as we recognize centers of excellence.
And some will have work transferred out to open capacity for market expansion.
We anticipate adding one new roll manufacturing facility in developing markets while additional plants may close.
Of course within Vision 2015 we are very focused on prioritizing our actions that will help improve our European profitability as promptly as practical.
Vision 2015 is company-transforming.
It consists of tasks we’re good at executing.
We have the resources and the willpower we need to make Vision 2015 successful.
When fully implemented we anticipate we’ll have reduced our total head count by approximately another 10% from July 2nd levels added 200 to 300 basis points to gross margin and driven our adjusted EBITDA back or above 20% of revenue.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Stephan.
In order to get started please refer to the sales chart on Page 9 of the slides.
Sales for the second quarter of 2012 increased 1.5% compared to the first quarter of 2012.
On a constant currency basis sales increased by 3.6% with clothing segment sales increasing by 1.9% and roll segment sales improving 6.8%.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 sales for the second quarter of 2012 declined 9.3% to $136.4 million from $150.4 million.
Currency exchange rate differences accounted for 5.1 percentage points of the decline while sales volume decreased the remaining 4.2%.
This decrease is comprised of a 6.5% decline in our clothing business which was partially offset by a slight increase in roll cover sales.
From a regional perspective continued weakness in Europe accounted for more than the entire decline as sales in the rest of the world improved by 1.6% compared to the prior year second quarter primarily as a result of continued strength in Asia.
On a year-to-date basis sales decreased 7.8% from the first six months of 2011 with 3.5 percentage points of the decline attributable to currency exchange rate differences and 4.3 percentage points of the decline driven by operations.
On the same constant currency basis clothing sales declined 5.2% while rolls decreased 2.5% for the year-to-date period.
Once again a regional look at the sales results indicates the weakness in Europe accounted for more than the entire reduction in sales in the first half of 2012.
Sales in the rest of the world improved by 1.8% during the first half of 2012 primarily due to strong Asian sales.
Gross margins improved to 37.4% of sales from 34.6% in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase of 2.8 percentage points was due to improved product mix partially as a result of an unusually high level of low margin steel core sales in the first quarter of 2012 and improved labor efficiencies offset by unfavorable currency exchange rate differences and unfavorable factory absorption driven by progress and reducing inventory levels.
Compared to the second quarter of 2011 gross margins declined to 37.4% of sales from 38.5%.
This decline as a percentage of sales was due primarily to the reduction of inventory reserves in the prior year.
Net of this unusual item gross margins were relatively flat compared to the second quarter of 2011 as unfavorable factory overhead absorption and unfavorable regional mix i.e.
less European sales were offset by favorable currency differences and improved labor and material efficiencies.
On a year-to-date basis gross margins decreased to 36% from 38.1% of sales in the first half of 2011.
The reduction in gross margin for the first half of 2012 was largely due to unfavorable factory absorption due primarily to weak market demand in Europe unfavorable regional sales mix increased inventory obselations (ph) expense due to the prior year reversal reserves and higher material costs.
These unfavorable items were partially offset by improved labor efficiencies reduced freight cost and favorable currency exchange rate differences.
Moving on to the chart on Page 10 selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs decreased 9.1% to $36 million from $39.6 million for the quarter ended June 30 2012 compared to the quarter ended June 30 2011.
The decline in SG&amp;A expenses was primarily due to the impact of favorable currency exchange rates reduction of accruals related to management and incentive plans and the favorable resolution of a contingent liability.
These favorable variances were partially offset by the prior year reversal of an accrual for VAT taxes in Brazil and incremental CEO transition costs in the quarter ended June 30 2012.
Selling general and administrative and research and development expenses for the first half of 2012 decreased by 4.3% to $76.2 million from $79.6 million in the first half of 2011.
The reduction was primarily due to favorable currency exchange rate differences the reversal of incentive compensation the favorable resolution of a contingent liability and gains on miscellaneous land sales partially offset by CEO transition costs and the prior year reversal of an accrual for VAT taxes in Brazil.
During the second quarter of 2012 restructuring expenses increased to $1.1 million from $0.5 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Significant costs in the quarter related to the transfer of certain equipment from a downsized location and determination of a sales agency arrangement in Europe.
Restructuring expenses related to restructuring projects in Argentina and France announced on July 2 2012 will begin to be reflected in the third quarter results.
Interest expense declined 9% to $9.1 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $10 million in the second quarter of 2011.
This decline reflects lower average debt balances and interest rates compared to the second quarter of 2011.
In addition the company incurred a $2.9 million write-off of deferred financing costs in the prior year second quarter in connection with the debt refinancing we completed in May 2011.
Income tax expense as an expense of pretax income was 51.4% in the second quarter of 2012 and 65.1% in the second quarter of 2011.
The improvement in the effected tax rate was primarily attributable to the geographic mix of earnings in the second quarter of 2012 compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Second quarter net income and diluted earnings per share improved to $2.2 million or $0.15 per share in the second quarter of 2012 from a loss of $7.5 million or $0.50 per share in the first quarter of 2012 and from income of $1.6 million or $0.11 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
On a year-to-date basis net income declined to a loss of $5.3 million or $0.35 per share from income of $2.3 million or $0.15 per share for the comparable six month periods ended June 30 2012 and 2011.
Page 11 of our slide deck displays our adjusted EBITDA result for the second quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides a measure of the operating performance of the business Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2012 increased by 35.1% to $25.4 million from $18.8 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Compared to the prior year adjusted EBITDA deceased 15.9% and 21.5% for the quarter and six months ended June 30 2012 respectively.
The data on Page 12 shows an improvement in trade working capital from December 2011 of 5.6% from $145 million to $136.8 million.
As Stephen mentioned this stable result is due to progress in reducing inventories and accounts receivable as well as the favorable impact of a stronger US dollar.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period ended June 30 2012 totaled $7.3 million compared to $12.1 million for the same period in 2011.
We continue to review our capital spending priorities in light of our overall cash flow and we’ll react quickly to manage this important area if the global economy continues to slow.
Net cash from operating activities for the six month ended June 30 2012 totaled $13.8 million compared to $6.8 million generated for the six months ended June 30 2011.
At June 30 2012 we held $33.6 million of cash on our balance sheet and maintained $22.6 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
Total debt at June 30 2012 declined $17.3 million to $451.8 million from $469.1 million at December 31 2011 as a result of $14.9 million of debt repayments and currency exchange rate differences.
Thanks Cliff.
I have just two additional comments before we open the call to your questions.
On Friday we announced that we had been notified by the New York Stock Exchange that we were no longer in compliance with their listing standards.
Their corrective action program provides the company with 18 months in which to resolve the identified issues and we are fully committed to work with the New York Stock Exchange to bring this matter to a positive closure.
I’m also sure there is considerable curiosity about the CEO search the board has been engaged upon.
The board has considered many excellent candidates and is close to a decision.
I believe we’ll have a new person on board in the near term who will come up to speed quickly and be capable of growing your investment and mine over the long term.
I look forward to this transition.
Meanwhile we continue to manage the company on the long-term path we think is most appropriate.
As you can tell from our recent launch of Vision 2015 the company is not waiting for a new officer to arrive and get up to speed before taking the actions that will contribute to long-term value to our shareholders.
Lastly I want to publicly welcome Roger Bailey to the Xerium board of directors.
I’ve known Roger for several years as he managed ABB’s paper industry segment serving the same customers that Xerium does.
Roger brings many years of experience grappling with the same issues Xerium has before it.
His paper-related tenure will enable him to keep the many structural changes occurring in our industry in reasonable perspective while providing excellent counsel to the CEO when that person arrives.
His global customer relationships will also bring value to Xerium.
While Roger has been a good source of information for me these past years I believe he will quickly begin to contribute to Xerium in a more formal manner.
I look forward to his board service and know he will be an excellent director.
Joe (ph) we’re ready for the first questions now.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions).
Joe do we have any questions? We have no questions at this time.
(Operator instructions).
Okay we do have your first question from (inaudible).
Go ahead please your line is now open.
Hi how are you guys? Good morning.
Just a couple of questions; I don’t know if you listened in on one of your competitors calls recently but they also talked about the EU deteriorating so I think that’s consistent.
But one of the things they mentioned was potential large orders coming out of Europe on a seasonal basis in September October large contracts that are up.
I was just wondering if you guys are seeing the same if you could comment on that? Since the world of competition or the world of customers in Europe is finite I’m sure they’re referring to UPM’s store Enzo the big French company numerous others.
We are involved in those competitions as well.
Okay got it.
And what about your CapEx? I know you spent about $7 million for the first half.
You’re guiding to $30 million for the year.
Is there a reason it ramps up so much in the second half? Well I think Adam (ph) there are a couple of comments.
One is I think in our prepared remarks we said that we would be adjusting CapEx as we thought appropriate.
CapEx is driven more toward the second half partially because of Vision 2015 and the CapEx requirements there the arrival of new machinery and we like to keep that cash as a toggle if you will.
Okay so you’re not definitely going to spend the $30 million if it’s $25 million or $20 million.
Like you said it’s a toggle so you’re giving yourself some room to breathe I guess.
Absolutely.
That’s true and we also said in the press release that the timing of the $30 million would probably – there’s a good chance that some of that spending will flop into the first quarter of ‘13 in addition to the point that Stephen made about the ability that we have to toggle back on the spending.
In prior remarks we have advised the investing community that it takes just under $16 million of annual maintenance.
Some of that maintenance is related to facilities that will be potentially impacted by Vision 2015 and of course there’d be no reason to put a new roof onto a plant that – or a new parking lot in a plant that you’d expect to close.
So we are being very careful and judicious in how we commit our CapEx.
Okay and I think when you and I had chatted you had mentioned something like 20% of plants potentially being closed which would be about six plants.
Looks like you’ve already talked about two of those.
What is the timing on the rest of that? Is that something we might hear by year end or does this go out sometime into 2013? I don’t recall providing a specific figure.
Vision 2015 is a 3.5 year process or 3.5 year program.
It is very complicated as indicated in the prepared remarks once again.
Local laws stipulate that you work with local workers’ councils with their unions prior to committing the direction of the outcome.
We have announced that we’re working with the facilities or employee representatives at our French roll plant which is outside of Leon and with our press felt plant just outside of Buenos Aires.
Those are the only two programs that are publicly announced.
As more programs or more become public.
Okay got it.
So I guess really in a nutshell it’s all about Europe is that how you guys look at it? Well I think we see the drag on the business as Europe today.
I would turn that around and make that a positive and say that the most recent CEPI and that’s the Confederation of European Paper Industries which are the – it’s the association of paper producers provides a monthly chart showing tonnage of production.
And every month since November of last year the tonnage has increased.
Now it went way down in November of last year almost to the lowest point of the 2009 recession.
So it’s got quite a ways to climb back up.
But there is a steady increase in the monthly tonnage primarily driven by packaging materials certainly not newsprint or printing and writing but we see Europe beginning to come back.
We’re trying to be cautious recognizing that we were probably overly optimistic in reading those signs in Q1.
But the real focus I think is Vision 2015 the new products and the really good work that’s happening to make the plants so much more efficient.
We have generated 20% of additional capacity really without CapEx.
We’ve done that by improving yield by the new product focus and this new product focus should not be lost on people.
While we as an engineering organization like to talk about the (biz) bang toys these new products reduce the cost of making paper.
And that’s what the paper guys are all about.
So that’s why you see the acceptance as high as it is.
I mean 58% of our revenue is coming from products we didn’t sell five years ago.
Right okay.
I think that’s great.
I appreciate it and I’ll get back in line.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Tobin.
Go ahead please your line’s now open.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Sure Mark.
Looking at your gross margins you had a nice rebound from the last couple of sequential quarters.
Can you give us a sense of the different levers that can move those around and I guess I know you don’t provide guidance but maybe somewhat of an outlook for a range for your gross margins? Well we certainly – you’re absolutely right we don’t provide guidance.
But the levers of course our head count personnel expenses overtime the number of setups that we have to do how much turbulence there is in the factories and how much time the factories spend actually producing product.
Yield improvement is a very big deal to us and also mix and I’ll come back to my theme of new products.
As more and more of our production is new product driven we get greater standardization inside the factories we reduce our setup times.
The new products have higher margins and help improve our pricing as well as the resulting cost inside the plant.
So it’s those kinds of levers.
But the focus on trade working capital has been pretty relentless since 2008 since we came up with the concept of tracked cash and that is also contributing materially to the bottom line.
Our lead times today are as low or lower than they have been in the prior five years.
We believe that our lead times and our ability to deliver product to customers is shorter than any of our competitors our products are higher performing than most of our competitor products not all but most and we think that gives us very good leverage in the market.
Certainly the data that we look at which is not public but deals with market share would suggest that the customers are voting with their purchase orders and we like how that’s going.
That’s helpful.
I guess to follow on that theme what are you seeing from a competitive standpoint particularly on the pricing side? Have you been able to leverage the new products able to maintain your pricing? We are seeing stability and maturity in the market unlike behaviors that predated the late 2008 recession.
We don’t see unusual or what we might consider fire sale kind of pricing going on and certainly we’re not doing that.
We are steadily recognizing in our product pricing the value of the product that we deliver.
Okay.
And then one final one for Cliff.
What tax rate is it safe to expect on a quarterly run rate basis? It’s really hard to pin that down because the mix between those areas where we have lost companies that have NOLs where we get no tax benefit and the mix of the tax-paying errors.
I can say that the reason for the decline in this quarter from last year’s second quarter is because we had a greater mix of profits in those non-tax paying areas where we have NOLs and less income in tax paying areas which clearly there’s some – Europe does impact that because we do pay taxes in Europe.
So I think going forward as long as Europe stays weak we would expect that the effective tax rate would be lower and we would hope that as it comes back again we can improve performance in those non-tax paying jurisdictions and drive that rate down over time.
Okay that’s helpful.
I’ll jump back in the queue.
Thank you.
Thank you Mark.
Thank you for your question.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pace from Stone Harbor.
Go ahead please.
Thanks guys.
Just a quick question I think at the end of the first quarter you had given some color around your thoughts for the second half of the year and you had said then you thought it would be much better than the first half.
You were correct on the 2Q being better than 1Q but it sounds like you’re backing away from that view from some of the statements you’ve made.
Is there any sort of color or guidance you can give around that at this point? John I think you’re absolutely right that our view of the second half is less optimistic than it was when we spoke at the end of the first quarter.
It’s very difficult for us to speculate or forecast what the European common market might do.
I suppose if we were accurate at doing that we’d all be very rich and not working here today.
We are optimistic about the continuing strength in Asia we’re optimistic about South America we’re frankly a little concerned about North America.
The most recent government GDP numbers don’t warm us up but we are seeing very good market share performance in North America which is offsetting what is a stable market I think.
The ballgame for us is going to be Europe and you will know as much about that as we because we’re following it daily and I’m sure you are also.
We are – to loop back yes we are less optimistic about Europe’s recovery in the second half.
We’ve structured and sized the business for that.
Vision 2015 is aimed right at that and I think we’re well positioned to perform in the second half.
So as we look into the second half from the first half particularly from 2Q I mean from your orders it looks like we’re moving sideways.
If we are indeed moving sideways would the $25 million of EBITDA be good baseline to start with and how we look at that? You’re asking us to give guidance and we just can’t do that.
Okay I’m just trying to feel you out on that.
Good try.
I do my best.
Anyway guys good quarter and thanks a lot and I appreciate your answering my questions.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
Your next question comes the line of Swaraj Chowdhury from Dalton Investments.
Go ahead please your line’s now open.
Hi.
So of $33.6 million cash at the end of the second quarter how much of it is in North America and how much of it is in outside? Cash is fairly well distributed across the globe.
I would say that we have major operations all over so the float that we have generally is around $25 million and that’s spread fairly evenly across our sales base.
The incremental amounts I would say would be in the US.
Okay okay and I’m trying to estimate your cash needs in a year.
So it looks like you are talking about $30 million of CapEx.
Interest expense is about $40 million so that makes it $70 million.
And you still have close to $80 million of under-funded pension.
What about pension contribution? How much do you see in the coming year how much you have to fund? Pension contribution will be up slightly from 2011 due to the fact that the discount rate has gone down.
I would say if you added $2 million to last year’s funding that would probably be a good number.
Okay.
And any other cash need that is – I mean either in terms of working capital taxes or anything for 2012? No I think we’re making a major effort to reduce working capital across the business and we’re certainly keeping an eye on our capital expenditures and I think that if anything the $30 million will probably be below that this year due to timing as well as just kind of really scrutinizing that spending but the focus here is on improving EBITDA and generating cash for debt pay down.
My last question is on your Vision 2015.
I have not followed it in the past much.
It talks about $35 million of investment over the next three and a half years.
What is the benefit of it? How much cost savings are we going to achieve finally? What are the other benefits of it? The annual run rate of savings that we’ve disclosed is about $20 million annually once the full program is implemented.
So that will be after 2015 or it will start to accrue even before that? I would say after the program is over in three and a half years yes.
We will start to have some benefits recognized actually in ‘13.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Kus from Jefferies.
Hi Stephen hi Cliff.
On working capital you had mentioned that you guys had a pretty strong focus on that and you have done a pretty good job over the last few quarters.
Do you expect continued reductions there or are you guys at a pretty good level at this point? Well there’s what we call $39 million or what we recognize as $39.6 million of trapped cash.
That is the amount of cash on the balance sheet higher than what we would have if we had six turns 75 payable days and 50 receivable days so today we had or in Q2 we reported 4.4 inventory turns.
While 4.4 is a whole lot better than it was in 2008 when it was 1.8 six is the goal and we are making actually in our plants we are making what I would consider to be almost remarkable progress in reducing work in process inventory.
The remaining opportunity in inventories for trade working capital reduction are too and of course is yarns.
As we begin to convert our major raw materials to consignment with our primary suppliers participating in that that’s going to help quite a lot.
Then finished goods and primarily our finished goods inventory relate to consignment inventories or transactions that are called make and hold that are essentially a consignment inventory where we guarantee to a customer delivery within a finite period of time shorter than we can produce it.
As our build cycle time goes down the number of pieces that we have to hold in that make and hold also goes down.
The company has been steadily reducing its consignment inventories.
We are about half of where we were three years ago.
Customers of course want that.
We are able in general to negotiate out of those as we take a focus on a customer by customer basis.
Our single largest consignment agreement has been… Let me phrase it this way.
The termination of our single largest consignment agreement has been agreed to with the customer.
We will transition that out before the end of the calendar year and so the largest pool of consignment inventory will have gone away.
On the raw material side primarily yarns the best way to cut that down of course beside consignment is to reduce what we pay for it so that the value of the spools of inventory is lower.
As noted in the remarks we have rebuilt… Maybe I should phrase it this way.
We have constructed a new global purchasing organization inside the business whose number one focus and it is a laser focus is on the procurement of yarns.
We spend almost $40 million a year buying yarns and that represents a terrific opportunity for working capital reduction.
So yes there is more to come out of trade working capital.
I will share with you however that we know that our trade working capital is the best of all of the companies we compete against.
We have that through association data.
I can’t tell you the exact numbers and I can’t tell you which association it is but we have an absolutely conclusively that we are far and away better than any of our competition in the area of trade working capital management.
Great.
Lastly just to touch on the European environment one more time have you guys seen it to continue to deteriorate here or has it really stabilized down at this lower level? I think it’s spotty and you have to go in and look at individual grades.
The packaging producers are starting to increase production as I mentioned.
They’ve come up off the floor which was November of 2011.
The printing and writing is not doing very well.
Newsprint is doing better than it did but newsprint is a relatively small segment now in Europe.
Last year newsprint was constrained by the value of the euro relative to the Canadian dollar and quite a lot of newsprint was being exported from Canada into Europe.
Tissue is stable.
Specialty papers are not doing that well in Europe although they are pretty small.
The big drivers are packaging and printing and writing.
Printing and writing is declining packaging is going up.
So it really depends on who your customer is to determine what the company’s operating environment is and how those particular customers are faring in their markets.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Your next question comes from John Koerber of Bennett Management.
Congratulations on your quarter because it certainly shows some rebound from the first quarter.
I note that in your segment earnings over the last 12 months roll covers has been more profitable on a margin basis then clothing.
Is that a function of where the customer is or that more roll covers is in Asia rather than Europe because that kind of reverses a historic relationship? We have been successful in rapidly growing our Asian roll business.
We have two facilities on the ground in Asia today.
Last year we introduced the repair of a product we call spreader rolls which is about 20% of the roll business that we do.
We introduced or built a facility inside one of our factories to do that work in China and it has taken off quite successfully and that is a contributor to the improvement in rolls.
One other point I think I’d make about that is that we are more capable of throttling back expenses in the roll side than we are on the clothing side.
As the plants tend to be older there isn’t as much CapEx in there and slightly more than half the plants are in North America where we have a lot more labor flexibility than we do we’ll say in Europe.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Thomas Howard of UBS.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Most of this will be confirmatory.
I just saw in the Q that the cash at the parent and the guarantors is $7 million.
It says the undrawn revolver available is $16 million and a bit.
Does that sound right? So your total US liquidity is something like $23 million? Yes.
Could you comment on the covenant amendment process? It seemed like you got off pretty easy didn’t have to pay a big fee and the rate didn’t go up that much.
Can you talk about that process and how difficult and easy it was to get those changes implemented? We have maintained a steady and positive relationship with our lenders.
I don’t think the lenders were at all surprised and came to them and said here’s the situation.
We’re trying to support a major customer or a major company restructuring that will have the benefit of improving your credit quality.
What we’re concerned about is Europe.
Can you give us some relief so that we can stay focused on executing this three and a half year program rather than looking over our shoulder over day? Can we adjust this plan can we make this adjustment relative to the leverage covenant? We had close to 100% of the lenders agree.
It was a process that frankly was very well managed by our syndicate lead and that’s Citibank.
We are pleased that it went the way it did and appreciate your comments recognizing that.
It’s always a nail biter.
You never know what’s going to happen but given that the company’s approach has been to try to be as transparent as possible with all its constituents I would say that I don’t think that any of the lenders were surprised that we were coming to them.
It probably doesn’t hurt that you’ve already repaid $17 million or $18 million of the debt this year.
And just to confirm another comment that was made you said the pension fund would be similar to the last couple years as something like $9 million to $10 million.
Does that sound like the right ballpark? I think $9 million-ish is probably the right number.
That’s all I had.
Thank you.
Thank you for your questions.
There are no further questions.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for your attention and for the excellent questions.
The company looks forward to making its next earnings presentation in about three months.
Good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
You may disconnect.
Thank you and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies Third Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call on November 6 2012.
My name is Clinton and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies' third quarter 2012 financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis the CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after market close on Monday November 5 2012 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects for the company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2012.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today November 6 2012 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's third quarter performance.
Compared to the second quarter of 2012 our net sales decreased 1.6% or 1% on a constant currency basis to $134.2 million in the third quarter of 2012.
On a constant currency basis net sales of machine clothing increased 1.4% representing the second straight quarter of volume growth in that segment.
On a constant currency basis net sales of roll covers decreased 5.3%.
The flow through effect of the sales decline was the primary reason for a 3.9% decrease in adjusted EBITDA from Q2 to Q3 of this year.
It declined to $24.4 million in the third quarter of 2012 from $25.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 net sales decreased 9.4% or 4.4% on a constant currency basis to $134.2 million primarily as a result of the decline of sales in Europe.
Again the flow through effect of this sales decline is the primary driver of a 14.7% decrease in adjusted EBITDA to $24.4 million in the third quarter of 2012 from $28.6 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Year-to-date net sales have decreased 8.3% or 4.3% on a constant currency basis to $405 million from a $441.8 million contributing to a decrease in adjusted EBITDA of 19.2% to $68.6 million in 2012 versus $84.9 million in 2011.
The company continued its debt reduction program during the quarter with additional net debt retirement of $5.7 million.
On a year-to-date basis net debt has been paid down $20.6 million and stands at $447.8 million as of September 30 2012.
Demand in the global markets we serve is reactive to base economic health.
We are committed to leading in the markets that we serve.
However year-over-year sales in our traditional markets are down sharply and we must rightsize our cost structure around that reality.
We are in the process of reducing our cost structure and advancing our capabilities technically in all regions.
To that end we are both continuing the implementation of the 2015 restructuring plan which is -- excuse me Vision 2015 restructuring plan which is expected to save $20 million upon completion and we are adding significant new cost savings and revenue diversification actions.
We are in the process of finalizing our new 2013 plan at this time and the objectives of this plan are: One paper market leadership; two cost reduction; three revenue diversification; and four debt pay down.
Key actions to achieve these objectives are: Eliminate a significant amount of SG&amp;A costs from the Company's cost structure; implement a Lean manufacturing waste reduction program to lower our production costs; complete the closing of 2 plants and redeploy certain of those assets to China and other countries; establish a global procurement program to both lower our costs and advance our product portfolio; rightsize our hourly workforces to be in line with sales rates; and expand our rolls production capacity in growth markets.
For the longer-term we have begun to evaluate opportunities to increase our production in low-cost countries.
Our company is committed -- completely committed to financial success and customer value and we are proud to serve our customers and help them achieve their productivity results.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Harold.
Sales for the third quarter of 2012 decreased 1.6% compared to the second quarter of 2012.
On a constant currency basis sales decreased by 1% with Clothing segment sales increasing by 1.4% and Roll segment sales declining 5.3%.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 sales for the third quarter of 2012 declined 9.4% to $134.2 million from $148.2 million.
Currency exchange rate differences accounted for 5 percentage points of the decline while sales volume decreases accounted for the remaining 4.4 percentage points of the decline.
The decrease was comprised of a 3.9% decline in our clothing business and a 5.2% decline in our roll cover business.
From a regional perspective continued weakness in Europe accounted for the majority of the decline with volume decreases in South and North America also contributing to the unfavorable sales result.
On a year-to-date basis sales decreased 8.3% compared to the first 9 months of 2011 with 4 percentage points of the decline attributable to currency exchange rate differences and 4.3 percentage points of the decline driven by operations.
On this same constant currency basis clothing sales declined 4.8% while roll sales declined 3.4% for the year-to-date period.
A regional look at the sales results indicates that weakness in Europe accounted for more than the entire reduction in sales for the 9 months ended September 30 2012.
Sales volume in the rest of the world was up 0.5% during the first 9 months as strong Asian sales more than offset declines in the Americas.
Gross margins decreased to 36.6% of sales from 37.4% of sales in the second quarter of 2012.
The decrease of 0.8 percentage points was primarily due to unfavorable currency exchange rate differences and unfavorable production absorption.
Compared to the third quarter of 2011 gross margins of 36.6% were flat to 2011 gross margin as foreign currency benefits were offset by unfavorable production absorption as a result of lower production running through our plants compared to the same quarter last year.
On a year-to-date basis gross margins decreased to 36.2% from 37.6% of sales compared to the first 9 months of 2011.
The reduction in gross margin for the year-to-date period was largely due to unfavorable factory absorption due to weak market demand particularly in Europe unfavorable regional sales mix and higher material costs.
These unfavorable items were partially offset by favorable currency exchange rate differences.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development cost increased 0.5% to $36.9 million from $36.7 million for the quarter ended September 30 2012 compared to the quarter ended September 30 2011.
The slight increase in SG&amp;A expenses was primarily due to the net impact of CEO transition cost in the third quarter of 2012 and the reversal of incentive compensation in the prior year's third quarter largely offset by favorable currency exchange rate differences.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses for the year-to-date period ended September 30 2012 decreased by 2.8% to $113.1 million from $116.3 million compared to the year-to-date period ended September 30 2011.
The reduction was primarily due to favorable currency exchange rate differences the favorable resolution of a contingent liability and gains on miscellaneous land sales partially offset by CEO transition costs and the prior-year reversal of an accrual for VAT taxes in Brazil.
During the third quarter of 2012 restructuring expenses increased to $5.8 million from $0.6 million in the third quarter of 2011 significant costs in the quarter related to the restructuring projects in Argentina and France announced on July 2 2012.
These projects are expected to begin contributing savings in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Interest expense declined 1% to $9.8 million in the third quarter of 2012 from $9.9 million in the third quarter of 2011.
This decline reflects lower average debt balances and higher interest rates compared to the third quarter of 2011.
The increase in interest rates reflects the addition of 75 basis points for the next 6 quarters to our bank term loan interest rates spread as agreed to in connection with the bank amendment finalized in June of this year.
Income tax expense was $94 000 in the third quarter of 2012 and $3.3 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The improvement in the income tax expense was primarily attributable to the consolidated loss driven by the lower sales volume particularly in Europe the level of restructuring expenses in the quarter and the geographic mix of earnings in the third quarter of 2012 compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Third quarter net income and diluted earnings per share declined to a net loss of $3.7 million or $0.24 per share in the third quarter of 2012 from net income of $2.2 million or $0.15 per share in the second quarter of 2012 and from income of $3.5 million or $0.23 per share in the third quarter of 2011.
On a year-to-date basis net income declined to a loss of $9 million or $0.59 per share from income of $5.8 million or $0.38 per share for the comparable 9-month period ended September 30 2012 and 2011.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides a measure of the operating performance of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2012 decreased by 3.9% to $24.4 million from $25.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Compared to the prior year adjusted EBITDA decreased by 14.7% and 19.2% for the quarter and 9-month ended September 30 2012 respectively.
Trade working capital increased from the second quarter of 2012 by 1.2% from $136.8 million to $138.5 million.
Compared to the same quarter in 2011 trade working capital improved 12.4% from $158.1 million.
This favorable result is due to continued progress in reducing inventories and accounts receivable as well as the favorable impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period ended September 30 2012 totaled $13.2 million compared to $18.9 million for the same period in 2011.
We expect full-year capital expenditures to be approximately $25 million in 2012.
Net cash from operating activities for the 9 months ended September 30 2012 totaled $30.2 million compared to $30.8 million generated for the 9 months ended September 30 2011.
At September 30 2012 we had -- we held $39.6 million of cash on our balance sheet.
And as of October 23 2012 maintained $24.1 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
Total debt at September 30 2012 declined $21.3 million to $447.8 million from $469.1 million at December 31 2011 as a result of $20.6 million of net debt repayments and currency exchange rate differences.
Thank you Cliff.
Clinton are you there? [indiscernible] We are ready for our questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First off Harold can you give us a little bit of an indication of maybe the magnitude of the additional cost savings you think you can get beyond the $20 million from Vision 2015? And also I take it you expect these programs to be implemented over the course of 2013? Our -- additional cost savings questions we're not going to give complete guidance Richard but I will answer them as best as I can.
The additional actions that we're kicking off are multi-year also.
And as I mentioned in the commentary we are evaluating production low-cost countries.
We're evaluating how to shuffle our production to the lowest cost plants.
So a lot of these have multiple moves connected to them and will take a few years to play out.
The magnitude of it is similar to the magnitude of the project that's already been announced.
And so it's very significant.
We want to offset our inflation area items and advance the ball.
So it's going to be another series of multi-year actions that are the same kind of order of magnitude as the previously announced Vision 2015 program.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then would you say that there's a good portion of that that's really weighted towards SG&amp;A savings? I haven't done a split that way but certainly that's one of the targets we're after.
But I will say that we have equal opportunities to lower our cost of production as well.
I'm not dodging the question.
We haven't done a split in that manner.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then you had talked a little bit about redeploying equipment over into higher-growth regions specifically China it sounds like.
How much incremental CapEx do you think you need to spend to be able to do that and what type of initiatives are you talking about there? Is this more clothing-related roll cover-related? We are looking at both of our businesses in Asia.
The first moves that we're making are with equipment we already own.
So as we look at the plants that we are closing down and correcting our capacity situations in certain markets including Europe and South America some of the assets are still good and productive.
And we are relocating them to areas where we need that additional capacity specifically Asia.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then lastly.
Maybe Cliff one for you.
How do you feel about where you guys are in working capital currently and do you expect more improvement there? Working capital is a big focus for us.
We've made some progress since the end of last year and continue to press that initiative.
We do have some plans to improve our working capital position as we go into next year.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Bess of Roth Capital Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Cliff I just had a first question on -- could you give us the orders for the quarter by segment? We're not disclosing the order information.
I could -- I can tell you though that the order information that we've got is fairly consistent with what we've been seeing in the past couple of quarters.
So we're seeing really sluggish type of growth.
Nothing really meaningful in either direction.
It's a steady state.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay but it has grown slightly would you say? I would just say it's kind of bouncing around.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay it's in a range kind of where it's been.
And then given the current environment could you talk a little bit about the pricing that you're seeing out there? Are competitors taking any sort of aggressive cuts to prices at this point? We don't -- in any market with contracting in certain regions and growing in others you have the industry trying to contract its capacity and get in line with demand outlook.
We certainly have that.
In this quarter that just ended we continue to see softness in Europe versus the Americas.
And certainly the price pressure is more in Europe than it is in other regions.
In the quarter just ended we saw nothing dissimilar to the trend lines that we've had.
It's been consistent.
It's not overly severe at this moment in time.
It's been a consistent softness in Europe.
We still see it.
It's not worsening.
It's not getting better.
And us and our competitors have continued to adjust our manned capacity accordingly to be in line with the demand outlooks.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then I might have missed it but in -- you're expecting about $12 million in CapEx in Q4.
What is that going towards again? We really haven't described what that's going for.
There are some initiatives.
We've been delaying some of our spending as we got through the year.
We need to spend a little bit of money on some specific projects that we've scheduled earlier in the year but the spending is in line with our plans.
If anything we've actually deferred a little into '13.
It's primarily spending connected with Vision 2015 program and restructuring our cost structure.
The specific items some of them have lead times and they're down payments on long lead time equipment.
Some of them have to do with the people costs associated with downsizing the human resources that are manning our capacity.
And it's been an ongoing deal.
We've had the same level of type of maintenance spending.
We're definitely increasing our spending around quality systems in our plants.
Quality is definitely very important to our customers and we've seen opportunities to improve that and become more automated and sophisticated.
So product quality and then the -- we have some very important product development projects that are underway that we're investing in and then the cost restructuring spending surrounding Vision 2015.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with regards to the $20 million in savings that you guys can -- you guys are kind of expecting through the plan.
Are you able to break it down at all by SG&amp;A cuts versus the move of production or anything like that? Can we just get a little bit more clarity? That's similar to what Richard was asking from Jefferies on the break between SG&amp;A and other buckets.
And I'm not trying to dodge the question.
We didn't look at it in that manner but you can definitely look at our SG&amp;A structure and it suggests that it can be rightsized and we are.
I can just say that we are being even-handed with the look of the P&amp;L and when you're going through a sales decline you're overmanned in the plants and you're overmanned at the -- in the back office.
So we're rightsizing down the P&amp;L not really tolling out one specific area we're staring at.
We're literally trying to hold rate and get back to where we were on a rate basis an EBITDA rate basis in a disciplined manner.
And we want to create and enhance market discipline in all the regions we participate in as our competitors have done as well.
And it's not consistent in each region.
So the regions are performing quite differently.
And so our actions in each region are different.
SG&amp;A -- so I would say the SG&amp;A break versus plant break it would be a logical assumption to just look at our P&amp;L because we are just trying to rightsize the whole P&amp;L.
That's our goal.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess just last question for you Harold.
Since you've been on board can you talk a little bit about what you've seen in the Company what you like about the Company and what kind of makes you feel a little more positive about the outlook? Thank you for asking that question.
Number one we have a really solid team here at Xerium.
And we have industry veterans I'm very thankful for that.
We have strong regional customer relationships that we're proud of.
We have a lot of our businesses under contract and repeat business.
If you compare our Top 20 customers to the world's Top 20 potential customers we align up quite nicely.
We're -- I'm very happy to see that.
We have strong cash flow.
We're in a good position.
Our products lead SMART roll resolve.
We have an excellent product portfolio.
We are very committed to the paper industry.
Our 2 businesses are very paper-related rolls and clothing.
And so versus some of our other competitors we love paper and we're committed to paper.
Our market diversification activities are really based around an alternate use of those same assets into other markets versus spending time going after a different market.
So they're consistent with that.
And I'm very happy with the diversification activities that my predecessor Stephen had kicked off.
And a lot of them had great traction.
So I'm very happy with our commercial situation.
We're doing well in our markets.
I'm thankful for that.
There's a lot of good data on market size market share and we're holding our own.
On the opportunity size -- side I'm taking the advantage to really formalize some of the operational excellence programs that were just forming here at the company.
And again Stephen had started many of those himself.
And I've gotten behind them with the Presidents and the functional leaders.
And we're becoming more deterministic about our outcomes that we seek.
And when I alluded to additional cost-saving actions that we are implementing we are formalizing and becoming deterministic with outcomes -- cost-reduction outcomes on a lot of run the business topics.
And we have the data we need.
We have the information we need.
And we're targeting outcomes with specific actions.
So I'm also happy with the opportunities to enhance EBITDA that I see and we have a lot.
We've traditionally tracked for instance yield in our plants and the reverse of that is waste.
And so I've got more of a concerted effort on elimination of waste and re-use of our waste.
And so we've kicked off a lot of projects internally.
We kicked off over 100 projects across the board in operations and they're being led by the Presidents.
I'm not building a corporate infrastructure.
I'm leveraging the people we have and we're overlaying a structured fabric to achieve collective outcomes.
And I'm very happy to see that combination of events.
And it's been embraced by the team.
And it will lead us to be a better company for sure.
The next question comes from the line of Kevin Cohen of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess Harold if you could give a little bit more color in terms of Europe and the price pressure you're seeing there is it more a function of people that are cutting price to gain market share? Or is it the case that people are migrating into the higher margin products and so some of those areas are becoming a little bit more crowded or just any color you can provide on that topic? That would require me to be more of an industry expect than I am.
I do have joining me -- in the room with me Dave Pretty.
And Dave is the President of that business.
So Dave that's kind of a hard question but would you take a shot at answering it? Thank you Harold.
I think typically what we're seeing right now is just -- it's a question of overcapacity in the European theater of operation.
And there's encroachment definitely in the high-end segment of our product lines as well as the low-end segment of our product lines.
But we are taking a disciplined approach we continue to sell on value and we're holding our position in the European theater.
As far as corporate accounts as far as product -- new product introductions we are definitely holding our position.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess in terms of the market dynamics out there do you think the price pressure in Europe perhaps will usher in some consolidation? Or what do you see in terms of the industry landscape as that evolves over the next 12 to 18 months if anything? Well certainly we see that and of course we intend to be a part of that outcome.
And a couple of our competitors preceded us with more aggressive actions in Europe.
We intend to correct our situation in Europe.
And I think that the industry is pretty organized pretty disciplined.
It's one of my takeaways so far.
And we intend to do our part to balance the manned capacity in Europe to the actual -- our manned capacity to the demand that we see.
We do think that Europe's going to continue to slide a little bit.
That's our outlook.
We do believe there will be some price deterioration in Europe.
That's our outlook.
That's consistent at least with one of our competitors who has announced their results as well.
We don't see anything dramatic.
We don't see a big huge deterioration.
We just see a consistent deterioration going on there.
In other reasons -- in other regions that's not the case.
But certainly our strong product portfolio our customer positions our contractual positions and our legacy positions doesn't cause us if you will to go out in the spot market with open capacity and try to do short-term things.
Our goal is really to hold our positions with our product portfolio try to get repeat business off of the machines that we have rolls and clothing and sub total value.
Our value results selling program that we have is a total cost selling process total cost of ownership and basically it's pretty formal.
And that's the way that we sell.
And some people buy on total value some people don't.
I would guess the people that but on total value are more attracted to us but that's what our focus is.
We have a strong focus on the paper industry and Europe and that's the way we sell to them.
And we've been holding our share not gaining not deteriorating but holding.
And manning our capacity properly.
And as you could tell we are closing a plant in Europe now and we're looking at other actions to balance our capacity in Europe at this time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then one last question I guess for Cliff.
In terms of the timing of the $20 million of cost savings is there a way to perhaps kind of sketch that out a little bit for us? You said a little bit would start in the fourth quarter.
I guess on a run-rate basis when will the full $20 million be in the numbers or is it really is a 2015 type of event? Well what I would say is this: In 2012 we announced 3 projects and the total savings on those for 2012 which we've talked about is going to be about $3.5 million.
We expect to get full-year run rates out of those projects.
And so for 2013 we're expecting to see incremental obviously improvement over that.
We have not disclosed the additional projects in our pipeline so I really can't go further than that at this point in time because we haven't disclosed that information.
But we are looking for -- we are looking for in 2013 to see significant contribution from the overall Vision 2015 plan.
Kevin I'll just put a dot on that as well.
It's a steady program.
We're not adding talent to implement projects.
We have a set amount of projects we can take on as a group.
We have to balance that workload and that we are -- we have a balanced look at this.
It's a 3-year program.
And you should assume a balanced improvement program coming from us and that's basically what we're saying.
We got started and we have a measured approach to this so that we do it in a high-quality way and ensure the quality to the customers on the other side of it.
The next question comes from the line of Ryan Levenson of Privet Fund.
I just need a little bit of clarification on the cost-cutting plans.
Is it the -- is it the 2013 things that you're working on is that an incremental $20 million on top of the $20 million from Vision 2015? That's what we're trying to do but it's not 2013.
We have a multi-year plan.
If you look at the actions we're talking about of closing plants and reallocating productions these are multi-year projects.
So it's not a 2013 feel.
We'll be doing a lot of work in 2013 that will primarily benefit future periods.
And any long -- any of the lead times on equipment in this industry are around a year so ordering equipment is definitely improving a forthcoming period.
So the 2015 project and the additional cost-savings projects are both spread over a 3-year period.
Okay.
And then I missed just what the last caller asked which was -- there was some I think it was a $3.5 million contribution.
What time frame was that? Well what I was talking about was the impact of the 3 projects that we had previously announced and the impact of that on 2012.
So those are the savings that we've been able to get this year okay? So the -- then there's the incremental full-year run rate on those projects plus additional actions that will be taken going forward.
Okay and then I just wanted to break down working capital a little bit.
Some of the -- your inventory did on an absolute basis or relative to the size of business it did improve.
But the AR really I think can just be accounted for as due to the sales drop.
And I'm just wondering would you be able to hold your AR down at this level should sales rebound? Or are we looking at maybe about 40% -- or excuse me about 1/3 of that $19.5 million is really a temporary kind of working capital position improvement? I think that we -- if sales go up obviously we're going to have some working capital investment necessary for those sales.
We do have actions underway and that we continue to work on to improve trade working capital.
So we expect to get -- I wouldn't say it's a linear calculation here we expect to have some benefits that we'll be introducing to offset any increase in sales and the effect it would have on receivables.
Okay and then from the inventory standpoint I mean is this the lowest that it can go or can you get turns to improve a little bit more from here? I think similar to the accounts receivable comment I just made I think we continue to look at ways to reduce our inventory.
We've done a number of things over the last year and we continue to have -- to work terms and conditions with our customers and to reduce lead times to have a positive effect on inventory.
So those are the things that are continuing actions and I think we expect that we will continue to drive those numbers lower and in a more favorable position going forward.
We have multi-year plans to drive our working capital percentage down as a percentage of sales.
And what's the ideal percentage? We haven't really arrived at an ideal but you can see that our EBITDA rates if you do the math are going to be going up over time.
And certainly a good company would like to be -- EBITDA and working capital to be similar.
But we really haven't done a new 5-year plan.
Me personally I've been here 12 weeks.
And so I have been trying to get a hold of current events.
But we will be doing a new outlook on that.
We haven't really established ideal standards but we're delineating a 2013 plan that has improvement in it over 2012 and prior-year habits.
That are sustainable.
The next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer of Pressprich.
You guys are you no longer doing the presentations as you've done for the last year plus? Correct.
We're discontinuing that presentation habit.
Why is that? Those were quite helpful.
Which one did you like? I liked them all.
Every -- you gave a lot of good information bookings percentage from Asia.
You talked about new product percentages.
And I just thought it was very helpful.
And if -- you guys should continue that.
We'll take it under consideration Adam.
You -- in bookings in a prior question came about bookings.
You said they were bouncing around.
In the last 4 quarters they ran $127 million to $134 million.
Are you willing to say they're in that same range is that bouncing around? I'm really well we haven't really disclosed those numbers.
But what I'm saying is that we're not seeing significant improvement.
It varies by region.
Some regions are up some regions are down.
We're not seeing a trend in either direction at this point time.
Yes I think that we're seeing very consistent corporate bookings activity and it's unfortunately been consistently declining a little.
Cliff's comments about bouncing around really he means it varies by region.
We've had a strong region Asia.
We've had a couple of regions holding their own North and South America and we've had a region not doing so great Europe.
So we definitely have -- we have 4 stories but overall our corporate number is very similar and you can see that our sales numbers have been very similar too.
And there's nothing happening to our trend line that's overly negative or overly positive.
Our stuff had long lead times.
Roll reorder it's going to be a few years to reorder a roll.
Our machine clothing does have a smaller life cycle and we can see where we have positions at our customers so there is some visibility there.
People are alive and well and making paper.
And we have contracts with them to be a supplier to them for their consumable needs.
So our visibility is the same and we don't see any unusual activity right now plus or minus.
It's just been a slight deterioration.
As you can tell year-to-date a little over 4% and that's still kind of happening to us.
What do you think the inventory situation is now at your customer base? That one is -- I'm not from the industry and I know that we've previously given guidance on inventory.
And so we were trying to prepare for that a little bit.
We do know that in Europe inventory positions are down and it's stable in Asia.
And in North America they're holding similar to what they have been.
Okay.
And what is your overall percentage of revenue currently from Europe? Well we list that in our foreign exchange -- in our filing.
If you look at our Currency section we list our sales by region.
It was 30 -- 31%.
From Europe okay.
And is Asia still trending up over -- is it over 20% now? No it's at 19% but it is trending up yes.
And it's trending up absolutely and then it's trending up as a percent of the company.
Got it.
And you also mentioned beyond your cost savings program you mentioned something called revenue diversification? Right.
Can you give a little more color on what revenue diversification is and how you plan to implement that? Absolutely.
Our revenue diversification is slightly dissimilar from our competition.
Our goal internally really is to look for alternate use of our assets and we are looking at selling synthetic textiles into other industries outside of paper.
We are looking at taking our covered rolls into 2 other industries right now.
We have current sales in those industries.
We're not reporting it as a segment.
We haven't been releasing that kind of information.
We're keeping it private.
We have a couple of areas that we are pursuing in the synthetic textile business that most of our competitors are but we have a couple of areas that are private.
But we are trying to diversify our revenue outside of paper and we've had a lot of success in the regional precedence or have responsibilities in those regards and we're achieving our objectives.
Okay that sounds good.
And I guess getting back to cost savings.
The program you announced prior you talked about $20 million in cost savings.
Now you're talking about a similar amount so we're talking about $40 million in all.
Is that something you expect to achieve totally in 2015? I think it'll lag outside of it especially the additional that we're laying on are new.
And definitely we have a set amount of people to do projects and we don't want to get overloaded and we don't want to do a less than 100% quality job.
So the phasing activities are going to go outside of 2015.
You really shouldn't double stack the numbers in a 3-year period.
That's not what we're doing internally.
And we are -- we don't have a new 5-year plan yet.
We're in the process of generating it but we definitely -- the management team has a strong desire to build on our core business strengthen it long-term leadership and several of these actions are multiyear that are outside of 2015 that's when they're going to be the primary impact of them.
Okay.
So would you say it's fair to say the $20 million you hopefully achieve in 2015 and then the additional $20 million beyond that? Or is it $20 million plus in 2015? I'm just trying to get a little...
They're going to overlay.
And I'm not dodging the question.
Just have 2 things: Number one we don't want to give firm guidance; and number two we haven't finished our homework yet on the multiyear actions to fix our situation on high-cost versus low-cost country production and to balance our capacity by region.
We haven't finished that work and we certainly don't have board approval on a lot of the big actions.
And we're knocking them down one at a time.
Some of the basics are underway right now but it's a big deal for us.
It kind of sets our footprint and it sets the way that we'll be spending our money in CapEx.
And as I mentioned I've just been here 12 weeks.
It's my 12th week so I'm trying to get caught up a little bit with the team but our executive team is 100% committed to closing the gap that we have on a cost basis and passing in certain areas.
It's going to take a several-year time period to do it.
So they'll be overlaid.
Some of the things we're doing we've already started them.
The ones that require CapEx and bricks and mortar are going to take longer and go outside the time period if they become board approved and part of our 5-year plan which has yet to happen.
Okay.
I'm sorry I asked so many questions but so the last question I had is in terms of capacity reduction.
I know your competitor talked about this on this call the other day that Europe still needs more capacity reduction.
You guys have closed 1 plant so far in Europe.
Have they talked about or have you heard any industry talk about them closing more plants in Europe? Do you guys see a need to close more plants in Europe? It seems like an industry situation you could both address.
Correct.
We've read of nothing that was released recently for I think I know the competitor you're talking about.
But several other companies have announced big massive situations.
Voith Metso and Albany have all announced restructurings including us so I'd say the big top competitors in the market have all announced actions to align their capacity to market demand.
I don't precisely know the actions that are private to them but we've only read the same releases probably that you have.
Do we have additional plans to rightsize? Yes we do.
I've been talking a lot about that.
You can rightsize though by unmanning the capacity and idling it and you can rightsize capacity by shutting facilities and moving them.
So there's a lot of ways to rightsize your manned output rates.
We're doing both.
I would assume our competitors are too but I don't have insight into that.
A lot of that's private.
The next question comes from the line of Bishop Jordan of Concerto.
Just a few quick questions.
What's the minimum level of liquidity you all think you need to run at? Minimum level of liquidity? We don't really have a target.
Right now our liquidity is I think $24 million is what we just said.
That's a comfortable level for us so we're okay with that.
And I'll also say that our cash needs our liquidity needs very -- they're in a tight band.
They don't -- we're not volatile in terms of our cash needs.
We order our materials on a long lead time.
We have lead times on our committed order to deliveries.
We can see the flow in the business pretty well and we don't do abrupt changes to our working capital balances.
They're pretty stable.
With regards to overall liquidity we certainly are committed to debt reduction and deleveraging.
Our company had delevered this year year-to-date.
We delevered in this quarter and we intend to keep doing that through next year.
So we're firmly committed to deleveraging to the point where liquidity really is a non-topic.
It's not really a big topic for us now.
We're fully in compliance with all of our agreements if you will and we have plans to improve that.
Right.
Would you all -- I mean assuming you generate free cash flow this year given EBITDA and CapEx would you all consider maybe going out if the bank lenders give you support to maybe buying some of your bonds in the open market because they're trading $0.85 to $1? Right.
We have some capacity to do that.
We have no plans to do that at this time.
But for us we are going -- we are trying to generate cash.
We are attempting to pay down our debt.
Certainly we can use our cash Cliff like that just as we did in this quarter.
Yes.
We're limited somewhat by the bank agreement but there is ability to do that and that's something that we do discuss and talk about how to utilize our free cash flow and how to pay down the debt.
So these are conversations that we continue to have.
The next question comes from the line of John Koerber of Bennett.
I would second the person's recommendation that the slide presentations were very useful.
They contained a lot of information that helped me understand the company and I would -- obviously some of it at this point may not fit what you want to highlight but -- as you move forward but I do think it's useful to the investment community that you have a slide presentation and so I want to make that recommendation that you at the -- on your next call that you contain something that gives your vision of the company whether it's new product introduction or whatnot.
The comment I -- the question I truly have is is I wanted to touch base as the previous caller did also on revenue diversification.
When you talked about that you want to use alternative use of your machines does this imply a couple of things: one that there's no additional CapEx in the revenue diversification? Two is there any additional need to increase SG&amp;A or whatnot? What -- is there additional cost as you try to diversify revenue? The -- thank you.
You asked a few questions there and I noted your slide presentation comment just as Adam mentioned it so I'll definitely take that under advisement.
With regards to the alternate use of our assets just talk about rolls for a minute.
Rubber-covered rolls convey material through large machinery.
There is large machinery in other industries other than paper and there are rubber-covered rolls.
They are polyurethane-covered rolls.
They are composite rolls.
They are the full roll portfolio that we are good at and a global leader at.
Heretofore we haven't had a concentrated effort to penetrate other markets.
We know of our -- some of our roll competitors are in other markets.
It hasn't been a concerted effort by us.
We do have some positions and now we are making concerted efforts into those commercially.
The diameters of the rolls are somewhat smaller than in the paper industry.
The paper industry's tend to be the biggest rolls you can come across but the width of the rolls is similar.
And so the diameter -- our machinery our lathes our grinders our casters can accommodate the smaller diameter rolls no problem.
And if you've been in a rolls plant you know that you can also adjust this equipment due to width of the rolls.
So our machinery setup is quite good.
With regards to SG&amp;A we do have team members dedicated to these markets now and we are not going to be net adding headcount.
We do have -- we are going to rightsize our SG&amp;A team as I mentioned.
And as markets decline we will rightsize our commercial teams as well and redeploy those into these alternate markets that are doing quite fine and have their own different dynamics.
And we do have specific markets that we're targeting and we do have a couple of industry experts but I really don't want to make known what our goals are.
Okay.
Can you -- I think there was always a slide that implied that your market opportunity in -- was $3 billion and you'd get some share of that.
When you talk about alternative markets do you have a market size that you would care to -- without identifying the industries that you would -- in its broadest context I think your -- or is available to you? I don't -- man that is a great question.
Thank you John.
You gave me a homework.
You gave me some homework to do here.
But I can tell you that the markets are similar sized.
Our entry into those markets is a crawl walk run kind of program so it's a multiyear build.
And so in terms of the -- I can respond to that.
I wasn't prepared for it though John.
They're large markets but we are going to initiate an explicit strategy that leverages our core technology value selling.
And we're underway with it and already have sales.
So I can -- I'll respond next time on that.
I'm not ducking it.
I just wasn't ready.
Okay.
The final question would be then as I -- it's a great revenue opportunity but back to the CapEx.
What I'm actually hearing a little bit is because you didn't touch on that you believe what you're going to be doing is increasing utilization of your current plants through this revenue diversification strategy? That is correct.
That is -- that's the primary driver for it.
And as I mentioned several of these actions were started by Stephen in advance of me and I'm riding those and we started a couple of more that I was familiar with coming in the door and that we had propositions on internally.
So we started several more on top of it and it's primarily to run volume across assets we already have.
Final question is is the previous emphasis on new product does that still continue? We've continued it.
We had 59% of our sales from new products in this quarter and we've got a goal of 60% for quite some time.
It's not a headliner for us.
We are continuing to lead and drive that project.
And we have an explicit leadership program underway for 2013 and we have a trial underway with one of our key products SMART roll an advancement of it.
It's quite unique.
It's an industry game changer kind of a product.
We're not ready to announce it.
Our Chief Technology Officer John Badrinas is extremely excited about it.
And we have a machine information system that rivals some of our competitors on feedback from the roll to the machine itself to further optimize productivity on the paper machine.
So we're advancing our automation and intelligent nip management across the width and length of the nip.
We have a balanced focus though.
It's on total costs and value to our customers.
So our game plan there is -- I'm fully behind it.
I'm not reporting it per se as much as it had been reported but it's still alive and well and underway.
We have more of a focus of adding to that in parallel with cost reduction and rightsizing our operations.
So it's not a trade-off.
It's really an additional objective that we're taking on.
The next question comes from the line Phillip Pennell of Mariner Investment.
I had just a couple of housekeeping questions.
From the 10-Q is there any additional color that you can offer us in terms of this Brazilian tax issue? Where does it exactly stem from? What is the likelihood in terms of your estimation of wrapping it up in the reasonably near future? It's a multiyear -- it's going to be a multiyear deal and for a lot of reasons we don't want to discuss it in a public format.
It's a private matter.
It's a lot of confidentiality involved.
But I can tell you the time frame is very very long.
Multi-years from now would be probably the outcome of it.
And we're not alone.
The Brazilian tax authorities have taken similar positions with other companies a lot bigger than us and some smaller than us.
So it's more of a -- it's a government-to-industry situation that's going to play out over a multiyear period.
And our specific matter is quite confidential and we don't want to discuss that in a public format.
Right.
I understand that.
It's more -- is there any existing precedent with regard to these cases? There are.
We monitor that Phillip and we're at the very early stages.
And there's about 200 cases from what I understanding and they're at various stages but fairly early on even on the ones that are most advanced.
Okay that's fair.
And I guess I maybe was trying to read too much into the fact that you're re-lowing that Argentine machinery into Brazil so it doesn't seem to be impacting the go-forward operations in the area.
That's right.
That's correct.
Okay.
All right.
Then another question out of the queue.
You mentioned in there with regard to new -- I couldn't tell whether it was necessarily now -- paper clothing machinery that was going to fewer rolls or if perhaps it's some allusion or alluding to alternative revenue diversification machinery that might have fewer rolls.
But you indicated that there were possibly fewer rolled machines going forward that can negatively impact revenues.
I mean at what point do you make that trade-off if you're...
Well let me -- I think what you might be referring to is that newer paper machines have fewer rolls in them.
And then we talk about that in the business in the business section and what we're -- there's about 7 000 paper machines out in the world.
6 000 are the ones that we sell into.
New machines coming online generally are maybe 10 to 20 machines a year so even though the newer machines have fewer rolls which would impact our ability to cover rolls we're talking about a very small migration per year and really not seeing that as a major threat at this point in time.
Okay.
So it's more of a threat [indiscernible] than anything else? Yes and the -- there's actually a positive mix to it.
The new machines are much more advanced technically.
And they want to see our SMART roll versus other products and we've done quite well on OEM installations on new machines that are happening in the world.
If you look at the puts and takes on old paper machines being retired and new ones being built as the GDP moves around the new machines -- this benefits us.
This isn't a threat to us.
This plays into our product portfolio and our advanced product features.
Okay.
So better for SMART roll for example? Better for SMART roll and our high-end fabrics.
Our machine clothing's up 2 quarters in row here.
So if you look at the repositioning that's happening globally we don't consider it a threat.
Okay.
Because it would seem to me that with fewer rolls they're probably running faster consequently using resources faster as well? Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Then I guess that's a segue to my final question which is in terms of looking at what's going on in Europe and the OECD countries I guess too in general do you view these changes as being cyclical per se? Or the secular moves that are driving paper demand in the OECD may have negative effects on kind of the developing world as well on a go-forward basis? Well there's 2 things here: I'm not an industry prognosticator.
I'm new to the industry.
I have some industry gurus around the table with me.
But if you look at the import-export data on European production a lot of paper has been exported into growing regions over time until those regions of the world had become -- have created indigenous supply.
And we and the industry have followed that and some of these machines are new state-of-the-art technical machines which plays into our product portfolio strengths.
The graphical grades of paper though in the developed markets certainly are declining and that's just tied into electronic commerce and the whole deal.
But if you look at the emerging countries of Asia and South America the graphed grades are still doing okay.
There's more and more people reading.
They've cut -- even cut paper copy paper's increasing in South America for instance.
Tissue is up.
And if you look at -- you really kind of have to look at the paper grade in the packaging industry in general or the GDP industry and is up in multiple regions.
What's really suffering in Europe by my take on it at this point is the graphical grades and it's structural.
So you got some structural things in the developed markets and then you also have some positive structural things in emerging markets.
They're buying the spectrum.
And so they need the full product portfolio but it's primarily new assets that want -- that need technical products on them.
And with our combination selling that we do of rolls and PMC we turn out to be a valued partner in there.
We have a strong packaging portfolio.
We have a strong tissue portfolio.
We have a packaged sell of rolls and clothing.
So that's good for us.
Newsprint globally though will remain under pressure over time as electronic commerce.
We're not fooling ourselves.
But the first advantage the first move that you see on graphical grades in some of these emerging markets are benefiting us and we see new machines appearing as a positive thing for us.
Okay.
All right.
I lied I have one final question which is it wasn't clear from what I read about the existing facilities but in terms of the benefit that you gained from kind of pushing off CapEx and being able to use the excess CapEx against your leverage covenant I mean is that cumulative over time through the end of 2013? Or is it a kind of a use it or lose it as you go year-by-year? There's 2 things: One is a technical question regarding our covenants how everything works.
The other is a comment on how we manage CapEx.
We're not really trying to push or pull it.
We're investing CapEx on a need basis.
We did -- we have run a little light this year.
Part of it is due to the restructuring project that was announced.
Part of it is due to CEO transition.
Stephen going out me coming in and me having to come up to speed.
And I really wanted to really understand the projects prior to blessing them.
And I have a fiduciary responsibility there and a lot this stuff's new to me.
And so I'm not trying to be -- I'm not trying to push or pull it.
I'm really trying to get caught up.
So I would think that you should expect from us a consistent spend and we stated it in our numbers that we're trying to spend around $25 million.
We may or may not.
We're not trying to push or pull that number but I have a spending request in front of me from each region.
And then I intend to make some to the Board of Directors as well that are above my approval level.
So we're just running the business normally.
We're not really trying to push or pull as a general run the business the statement.
With regarding Cliff to the specific comment.
Yes.
On the technical side I think you're referring to in the recent bank amendment we received as part of that an ability to increase our restructuring spending which was tied into our CapEx limits.
So when we manage the CapEx spending and the restructuring spending we're looking at a combined limit there out through the end of 2015 to answer your questions.
Okay.
So it is cumulative effectively? It is and as a focus I can tell you that we are trying to be more strategic with our CapEx.
We are absolutely trying to rightsize our operations in the regions and we're absolutely trying to advance our quality and product portfolio and each of the -- and each region has its own game plan on what's happening.
So we're being strategic with it and internally we believe we're making the right moves to optimize our commercial outcomes and our cost reduction outcomes.
Your next question comes from line of Sean Sauler at Redwood Capital.
I was curious about the new product initiatives that you're working on.
What are they first off? And secondly what sort of CapEx spend would accompany this? We don't have a lot of CapEx tied to new product development per se but as we field some of the new products we certainly need machine capability advancement that we don't have.
We do have specific product development initiatives in each -- in both the PMC business and in the rolls business.
We've talked a lot about the rolls technology with SMART roll and then the machine integration features of it.
Specifically in terms of applications tissue requires explicit integrated designs between the roll and the clothing.
We have been advancing that and so we have -- we do have next-generation products that are in trial that we intend to introduce but we're not ready to make public.
And so for competitive reasons we intend to launch them and try to get bang for the buck by introducing them in a strategic manner.
So nothing is ready to be announced right now but we're pretty excited about our advancements that we're making in SMART roll and we're excited about advancements we're making in machine clothing both for competitive day in and day out products in the machine clothing business and for the high end.
Okay great.
And then the growth that you guys talked about is that driven by these new product initiatives? Or is that driven from market share gains? Or is that driven from a turnaround in Europe? Well Europe has been in decline for us and probably most of the industry.
But for us we've had success with each one of the tick points that you mentioned.
I really couldn't pinpoint one.
I don't have the vantage point either of having studied that one went over time.
I'll -- I have a couple of my Presidents here with me Dave Pretty who's the President of North America and Europe; and I have Tom Johnson who's the President of Asia.
Guys would you help me out on that one? Dave? Sure Harold.
In terms of our direction we continue to be very strong in managing our corporate account initiatives leveraging the value sell platform using new technologies that we developed.
Harold's spoken at length about our product portfolio and how we've deployed that.
So really it is a continued focus on corporate accounts the introduction of new technologies that's creating value for our customer base which is allowing us to grow in all of the geographical segments.
And Dave said it well.
Tom Johnson President of Asia is also here.
Tom? Dave said it well.
I think it's bringing together all those capabilities.
We have a very successful approach not only in North America but also in Asia on our value platform.
And it really does bring together not only the technologies in PMC and rolls but it also brings together our capability and our workforce across the globe.
We have figured out that value for the customer is not just built on the sale of a product.
It's built on creating that value for the customer so he makes money.
We've been very successful in that.
Dave any industry -- any final comments there? Well I think in terms of also leveraging our industry experts around the world in terms of generating and driving that value in each of the market segments so it's one thing to develop new products but it's also another thing to apply those products in a customer setting that actually deliver value.
So it's a combination of all those things.
Okay? Okay.
Great.
And then I guess my last question is kind of a clarification question.
What is the size of the ability for you guys to buy back bonds? I believe it's $10 million to $15 million.
Because obviously economically you are paying down debt.
The bonds are at much higher rates so this definitely does seem like an accretive thing to do both for EPS and both for your cash flow.
So do you know that number off the top of your head guys? Is that a public number? It's in the bank agreement so yes.
It's about $10 million.
I believe it's $10 million.
I can double check that and get back to you.
But I don't want to give you the wrong answer but I believe it's $10 million.
Okay.
And like you said you guys are looking into this just as an option right? We continue to -- we evaluate that from time to time and we're really looking very hard at our cash position and our debt position and how we're going to manage that going forward and maximize the balance sheet.
I'd just say -- I'll even say it differently we have no explicit plans at this time.
And if we did we wouldn't make them known.
Actually sorry while I have you is there any plans -- I know a lot of investors wanted to talk you Harold.
Any plans for you guys to come out to a conference anytime soon or anyway that people can get on your schedule? Yes we intend to hit some conferences.
So I had set kind of a goal for myself to -- for the first few months to get out and about and visit the operations.
I've toured most of the operations in North and South America.
I'm headed to Asia with Tom and headed to Europe with Dave.
And so until I've met about -- I've been to about 16 or 17 of our 34 plants.
So I'm still coming up the learning curve to meet the team that's making it happen for us.
So I have that as a goal.
But I do have as a goal to get out and properly interface with investors so if there are certain events that you'd like us to attend please send the invite in to Cliff.
And your final question comes from the line of John Pace of Stone Harbor Investment.
Not a lot of bonds up here yielding 12.5% with 4.5x leverage and free cash flow I guess.
But a couple of quick questions for you here.
Let's see the new restructuring program you're taking with kind of ballpark $20 million savings over the next sort of 4 or 5 years or so whatever.
The cash cost to achieve that would you say that's kind of similar to the $45 million for the existing vision 2015? Or would you say it might be smaller or sort of a relative ROI I guess? Well we have -- we intend to stay within the limits that you've come to know Xerium to organize around which is the capital spending that we have and paying down a little bit of debt.
And we're not -- we're going to stay within those confines number one.
Number two we don't have a 5-year plan yet as I mentioned a couple times.
We're going to develop one going to do it together with the board.
We'll hash it out together.
The management team has some very specific ideas that are big and bold.
They all require board approval and buy-in and proper phasing.
At this point in time the 2015 project is our focus.
It's quite significant.
It requires a use of a lot of our available man hours to do it and additional actions have to be talked about in that context about being orderly and doing things in a quality manner.
So the continuum of activities I'm not ready to go live with an announcement or create a model for it.
I'm not trying to be coy or dodge.
We don't have that plan.
We are going to develop that plan.
We'll help you with understanding the multiyear impact of that plan.
We just don't have it right yet.
As I mentioned I've only been to about half of the locations at this point and I do want to involve all of the operations into them.
Okay.
All right.
And I guess looking forward then as we look at fourth quarter just to get an idea at least where we're trending quarter-to-date you said things are kind of just bumping along the bottom.
Obviously seasonally fourth quarter is probably a little weaker than the others.
Would you say we're kind of where we were last year at least volume and price-wise versus fourth quarter assuming we're kind of moving in a range? We don't see anything negative or positive around our trend line right now.
It's very consistent.
We've been doing pretty -- we've been growing a few percent in Asia been holding our ground in others and Europe's been declining a little bit.
Cliff's been pretty straightforward with that and you can see that we report our sales our percentages and you can kind of do the math on what the reported sales are and see what numbers are doing and that they are what they are and we see nothing discontinuous happening right now.
Okay.
Yes I mean because it looks like raw materials seem like they'd probably be flat.
Volumes seemed a little down on one side kind of up a little on the other.
Pricing is sort of flattish.
So I mean I kind of have you all flat year-over-year in the fourth quarter maybe up or down a little bit but...
We don't give guidance but I think what we're just saying is that we're seeing kind of a steady state in our business right now.
Thank you very much.
I think that was the last question according to Clinton.
I want to thank everyone for calling in this morning and asking questions.
We'll continue to have our executives on the call so that you can prepare for next time if you have any questions for them.
And we look forward to meeting you when we have the opportunity.
Thank you for supporting Xerium.
And with that I will conclude the call for today Clinton.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call on March 12 2013.
I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this afternoon are Harold Bevis the CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this afternoon and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-K after market closed on Monday March 11 2013 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-K.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed.
And this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today March 12 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this afternoon to review Xerium's fourth quarter performance.
Net sales have been stable in 2012 averaging approximately $134.7 million a quarter and are within a range of plus-or-minus 2%.
Our backlog defined as orders expected to ship within 1 year suggest that this trend will continue and currently stands at $174 million as of December 31 2012.
Compared to the third quarter of 2012 net sales were essentially the same at a 0.3% decline or a 1.4% decline on a constant currency basis.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 net sales decreased 7.9% or 6.2% on a constant currency basis to $133.8 million from $145.2 million.
Year-over-year net sales decreased 8.2% or 4.9% on a constant currency basis to $538.7 million from $587 million.
Gross profit has been fairly stable in 2012 averaging approximately $48.4 million per quarter and within a range of plus-or-minus 3%.
The 4.5% decline from $49.2 million in the third quarter of 2012 to $47 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 was primarily as a result of special charges [indiscernible] asset impairments lower constant currency sales volume and reduced production absorption.
Despite stable sales adjusted EBITDA declined 15.6% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to $20.6 million from $24.4 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This decline was primarily a result of special charges of $1.4 million for items including payroll tax exposures accounts receivable inventories and a third quarter reversal of $0.5 million management incentive costs that did not occur in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In addition to these unusual items adjusted EBITDA declined $1.5 million primarily due to reduced gross profit lower constant currency sales and lower production absorption.
Total debt is trending down as a result of explicit paydown actions and stands at $445 million as of December 31 2012.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 the company paid down $5.1 million of debt including the repurchase of $3.6 million of its notes in December of 2012.
On a full year basis debt was paid down $25.7 million.
Net debt as defined as total debt less cash balances was $410.2 million at December 31 2012.
The company is fully underway with a multiyear plan and commitment to increase sales and EBITDA and is rightsizing its cost structure around its core business and also repositioning its production capacity via lower cost and better service customers.
The company has taken specific cost actions to increase 2013 adjusted EBITDA including the closure of 4 manufacturing operations and reduction of headcount.
We have targeted savings net of reinstated incentive compensation of approximately $12 million in the year 2013 with a progressive quarterly buildup of cost out actions and a carryover into 2014.
Specifically the company took action against approximately $1.5 million of costs net of incentive compensation reinstatement in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
The company is funding and gaining its cost reduction activities with internal cash flow.
The company has also kicked off and/or accelerated several new sales growth and new product programs in order to reestablish top line growth opportunities.
These strategic moves will be kept private by company management for the time being but these actions are expected to open up another $200 million of opportunity into our served market.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance Thank you Harold.
Sales for the quarter decreased 7.9% to $133.8 million from $145.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Currency exchange rate differences accounted for 1.7% of the reduction while sales declined 6.2% from an operational standpoint.
This decrease was comprised of a 5.4% decrease in our clothing business and a decline of 7.8% in our rolls business.
On a sequential basis sales for the fourth quarter decreased 0.3% compared to the third quarter of 2012 as favorable currency exchange differences of 1.1% were offset by a 1.4% decline in sales volume.
On a full year basis sales decreased 8.2% as currency exchange rate differences accounted for 3.4% of the decline while the remaining decrease was due primarily to weakness in our European clothing and roll cover businesses.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 35.1% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to 34.6% in the fourth quarter of 2011 as special charges for noncash asset impairments were more than offset by reduced direct labor and material cost and the impact of favorable currency effects on production costs.
Compared to the third quarter of 2012 gross margin as a percentage of sales declined to 35.1% from 36.6% primarily as a result of special charges for asset impairments and lower production absorption.
On a full year basis compared to 2011 gross profit dollars decreased by $22.6 million or 10.5% while gross margin declined 0.9% from 36.8% to 35.9%.
The primary drivers of the 0.9% reduction in gross margin rates from 2011 to 2012 were unfavorable factory absorption due to lower production volume in our plants unfavorable regional and product sales mix an increased inventory obsolescence cost due to a reduction of inventory reserves in 2011 that did not reoccur in 2012.
These unfavorable variances were partially offset by favorable freight factory supplies and repairs and maintenance.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs increased 3% to $38.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 from $37.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase was due to special charges to impair certain assets held for sale and to provide for payroll tax exposures in 2012 and a reversal of management incentive compensation in the fourth quarter of 2011.
These increases were partially offset by favorable currency effects decreased legal fees and reduced sales agency commissions due to the termination of several sales agencies arrangements earlier in 2012.
Total SG&amp;A and research and development expense for the year ended December 31 2011 declined 1.3% to $151.5 million from $153.5 million.
The reduction was the net result of the favorable resolution of a contingent liability lower management incentive compensation and reduced sales agency commissions partially offset by CEO transition costs the prior year reversal of an accrual for VAT taxes in Brazil and special charges for the impairment of certain assets held for sale and payroll tax exposures.
Restructuring expense increased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2012 to $14.8 million from $0.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 as a result of recent announcements regarding the planned closure of a paper machine clothing plant in Spain and a spreader roll plant in Charlotte North Carolina.
In addition the company incurred costs to reduce its workforce particularly in Europe and  close of a roll covering plant in France.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 we realized savings of $1.7 million related to actions initiated to date under the Vision 2015 restructuring program and expect this to grow approximately $3 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Income from operations declined in the fourth quarter of 2012  to a loss of $6.1 million from income of $12.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The primary drivers of this decline were the incurrence of an incremental $14.5 million in restructuring costs and reduced volume primarily related to the European debt crisis and recession.
For the full year 2012 income from operations declined to income of $16.4 million from $61.1 million in 2011.
Net interest expense was flat at $9.4 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
This flat result reflects lower debt balances offset by increased interest rates as a result of the terms of our bank amendment entered into in June 2012 which added 75 basis points to our bank interest rate spread over LIBOR for each of the 6 quarters from the amendment date through December 2013.
Cash interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $8.7 million.
For the full year net interest expense improved 3.3% to $37.9 million from $39.2 million.
The reduction in 2012 was due to lower debt balances net of the impact of higher interest rates for the last 6 months of the year related to the June bank amendment.
Income taxes as a percentage of pretax loss were 42.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 16.5% for the full year ended December 31 2012.
Our overall tax rate for the full year reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
The improvement in the fourth quarter tax benefit was principally due to an approximately $6-million decrease in the reserve for uncertain tax provisions.
The geographic mix of earnings and consolidated net losses driven primarily by the large amount of restructuring expenses recorded in taxpaying jurisdictions in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Net loss/income and diluted earnings per share decreased to a loss of $9.1 million or $0.59 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012 from income of $2.4 million or $0.16 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On a full year basis 2012 net loss/income and diluted earnings per share declined to a loss of $18 million or $1.18 per diluted share from income of $8.2 million or $0.54 per diluted share for the comparable year-ended December 31 2011.
Restructuring expense net of taxes were $18 million or $1.18 per share and accounted for all of the loss per share in 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing arrangements and provides both a liquidity and financial performance measure of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2012 decreased to $20.6 million from $22.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted EBITDA declined 17.2% to $89.2 million from $107.7 million representing 16.6% of net sales.
Trade working capital improved from the third quarter of 2012 from $138.5 million to $131.1 million.
This improvement is due to a $2.6 million reduction in inventory a $2.4 million reduction in accounts receivable and an increase in trade payables of $2.4 million.
Looking back to the fourth quarter of 2011 TWC improved $145.2 million to $131.1 million an improvement of 9.7%.
Capital expenditures for the year totaled $21.7 million.
We currently expect 2013 capital expenditures to be about $32 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $9.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 despite the fact that the company made $13.8 million of interest payments on debts.
For the full year the company generated operating cash of $39.3 million or $2.58 per diluted share.
This cash along with the cash on hand at the beginning of the year were used to purchase $21.7 million of capital expenditures and repay $25.7 million of debt.
At year-end we had $34.8 million of cash on hand and approximately $24.5 million of borrowing availability under our revolver and other facilities.
Thank you Cliff.
At this point in time that ends our prepared comments and I'll open up the session here to question and answering.
And Dominique is our moderator today.
And Dominique we're ready.
[Operator Instructions]  And your first question comes from the line of Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Hey so first question on the net cost savings that you guys talked about both in the release and here on the call.
I think Cliff you had said that you realized savings of $1.7 million in the fourth quarter and you expect that to be around $3 million in the first quarter of 2013.
How does that compare to the $12 million that you guys talked about in the release for the year? Is that $12 million actually the amount of cost savings you expect to realize in '13 relative to '12? Yes 2 different ideas.
The first is in the -- in my comments the increase from $1.7 million to $3 million relates to the restructuring projects that we have and the impact they'll have on the fourth quarter and then expected to have on the first quarter in 2013.
The $12 million number includes not only the restructuring savings that we intend to generate but also the other operational benefits that we intend to generate in the first quarter -- or for the full year that is net of the incentive compensation add-back for the year which was not included in the 2012 results.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
So is it fair to say that that $12 million is a total cost reduction number that you expect to achieve in 2013 from all your different initiatives? It is net of the add-backs for reinstating the incentive compensation but it includes the savings that we expect for the full year across all of our initiatives.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
And are you guys still expecting something like $20 million by 2015? Or does that include the additional $20 million that you think you could get from that as well? This as a mixed program of the Vision 2015 as well as other initiatives.
So right now what we're saying is that the $20 million for the Vision 2015 we're showing that we're generating quite a bit of that this year.
But we've got other opportunities initiatives for the incremental operational savings that we've kicked off and those will be part of a multiyear plan as well.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I would say great move on repurchasing debt in the quarter at a discount helps lower the leverage and improve your future cash flow.
How much additional capacity do you guys have to repurchase notes? Under the terms of our bank loan agreement we have a $10 million basket.
So we've used $3.1 million of that I believe so we've got about $7 million left.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then can you talk a little bit about Europe? What you're seeing there in the overall economic environment and with regards to your sales? Yes we have with us today -- we have the President of Europe North America Dave Pretty.
Dave would you take that one please? Sure.
Richard just to add some color to the question.
From a paper manufacturing standpoint most of the announced capacity reductions have materialized or continue to materialize.
We believe that the markets in Europe are showing signs of stabilizing.
And this appears to be supported by the fact that a lot of the grades majority of the paper grades in Europe are sort of couching price increases for the markets for end of this quarter and the second quarter.
And consequently from a rolls and clothing standpoint this has had a positive impact in our January and February sales and orders both in rolls and in clothing.
And definitely trending up through the first 2 months very encouraged by that.
So I guess to answer the question things appear to be moving in the right direction.
And I'll add Richard.
[indiscernible] read Albany's release and they mentioned that their sequential sales ticked up in Q4 in Europe.
Ours actually ticked up before that and are holding at that higher level and to Dave's point we continue to see strengthening.
So I think around here we believe that the customers that we serve have flattened out.
We still agree with the long-term trend of declining paper and writing grade but increasing tissue grade so that all of the same dynamics are in place that you hear elsewhere.
But our share of the market is holding steady and then growing in certain spots and our orders are churning up in Europe now for a couple of quarters.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Very good.
And how would you characterize the pricing environment there in Europe? Has that stabilized as well with regards to clothing and roll cover? I think from a standpoint of PMC we're still holding our own in the market.
And as far as the rolls cover -- the roll cover business again while there's competitive pressure we are still holding our ground based on product performance and product portfolio.
Remember that we're selling on value.
We're not selling on price and we've been able to continue to execute on that front.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question a little bit more of an accounting question.
You guys talked about the payroll tax charges and a few other adjustments that you had there.
Is that stuff -- has that stuff been added back to -- in the calculation of adjusted EBITDA? The only thing that gets added back we had some impairment of some fixed assets that would be added back for purposes of the calculation.
All of the other charges would be included in the EBITDA results that you see.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
I see and then that breakout of impairment charges between cost of good sold and SG&amp;A? Yes the -- while the impairment charges that would -- that were added back was about I think it was about $1.8 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Cohen of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Harold I guess terms of the cost savings just unclear is the company saying it will realize in 2013 $12 million of incremental cost savings versus 2012.
Just so I'm really clear on that? Yes our intention with saying the numbers in this manner is just to try to give you some clarity on what you can add in your model for 2013 versus 2012 on net cost takeout of the company because the company did not have any incentive comp last year was -- did not achieve its targets and we're accruing now against a different plan and we are accruing therefore a higher payroll dollar amount.
That's where it shows up.
And so in -- net of that number all in you should see our cost reduce net-net $12 million year-over-year.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's definitely helpful.
And then I guess to elaborate further on the press release that mentioned the company taking specific cost-reduction actions to increase 2013 EBITDA is the company guiding directionally for adjusted EBITDA to be up year-over-year in 2013? Or no guidance on that front? I was just trying to sort of parse through the underlying meaning if there is one there? Well there's 2 points.
Our -- we're trying to be pretty clear on the cost takeout year-over-year as adequate [ph] to 2012 $12 million.
And then additionally we're not done deal.
We are -- we have a pay-as-you-go programs that we're running here.
We have very specific actions in mind for our next series.
We have capacity to do so in all of our agreements to spend significantly more materially more.
We're gaining our activities properly based on cash flow and we have a slate of additional cost take out actions that are not in play yet that the numbers that we discussed with you are our firm plan and we are on that plan.
So like any good management team we have additional actions to try to beat the plan.
But at this point in time we're on plan and that plan calls for $12 million net take-out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right but I guess looking at the sort of the secular trends and pricing volume and the cost takeout there's certainly a lot of moving parts and I know EBITDA was down roughly about 9% on a reported basis 4Q year-over-year.
So again I'm just kind of looking at 2013 versus 2012 is directionally the comment that EBITDA is flat or up or down or just kind of refraining from even elaborating on that? Well on 2013 Q1 I can just tell you that through January and February our sales and orders are ahead of prior year and prior quarter and our EBITDA is significantly ahead of prior year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then I guess lastly in terms of maintaining price because I know it's a price and value proposition what about in terms of market shares? Is the company roughly speaking holding market share by being disciplined on price? Or any market share erosion as a result of being disciplined on price? You have the same set of data that our peers do at Albany and our share has been holding firm in each region of the world that we participate in.
The better set of data for South America's Bracelpa different organization and it fills similar facts that we're holding our market shares.
We're being pretty disciplined about not trying to grow our shares the wrong way.
We do have the value program that Dave Pretty mentioned and Tom Johnson who is here with us the President of Asia they're employing the same sales strategy in Asia.
And that is to gain positions on machines through trial efforts.
We have explicit program to gain references and to become an approved supplier on different positions on the same machine and on different machines.
And it's a very deliberate process.
We have a plan that we're doing there and we continue to gain additional approval locations in Asia and Europe and the U.S.
So that has been more than offsetting the closures.
And so we track closures also in terms of positions lost and so we've been net gaining approved positions to sell into.
And that's corroborated by industry data that shows that Xerium is holding its market shares.
Your next question comes from line of Adam Ritzer of Pressprich.
Could you comment more about your backlog? You guys said year-end backlog was about $174 million I think.
Could you give a similar figure for the backlog at the end of Q3? Backlog in Q3 would have been lower.
We're going to grab that for a minute while Adam we're digging for that we'll answer it I can also tell you that through January and February of this year it's increased.
Okay.
So it's up from $174 million and you're going to grab the Q3 information while we're on the call perfect.
Our backlog actually is higher than $174 million but that's the backlog that's shippable in 1 year.
We also get blanket orders from customers that we have under contract.
So our total backlog is over $200 million but we're reporting the number the way Albany does to be consistent and comparable.
And so our backlog has grown in the first 2 months of this year and it's grown in the right products.
So we're happy that our main products are growing and we're having more success selling into new positions and new customers.
Adam the backlog from the end of Q3 to the end of Q4 grew 2%.
Okay.
In the right direction.
Great.
And could you talk a little bit about more about the new market opportunities.
I know you mentioned it's around $200 million.
But is it that the total you think you could get? Or is it that a total market where you can get a share of that? Maybe you could without giving details talk a little more about how the market opportunity is? Right so the -- there's 3 parts to that.
One is what are these opportunities that we're speaking about.
Some are in paper and some are not in paper.
If you look at our participate -- participation in the pulp and paper industry we do have a few holes in our product line.
And they get down to very specific types of fabrics and rolls and we are filling them through internal product development.
And in several cases there's patents to work around and in several cases we're pursuing our own patents.
But they take a little bit of time to do properly and to have the IPL in order and have the customer references.
So we accelerated several projects that had been talked about here for some time and some actually had some initial efforts.
We also are explicitly growing outside of pulp and paper.
And we've had good -- we've had good success right out of the box.
We like Albany we do participate outside of pulp and paper and probably more broadly because we have a rolls business and there's a lot of machines outside of paper that have rolls on them.
And so that's a business that has a lot of legs to it and we have explicit types of rolls for machines that are not pulp and paper that we are going through approval processes on right now.
So those are the 2 types of -- 2 sets of market opportunities that we're after.
Now in terms of the market opportunity $200 million is the total opportunity set that we're opening up to us.
If we assume our normal market share of around 20% take 20% of that $200 million and that's what we're hoping to get.
Got it.
Okay that's exactly what I was looking for.
Perfect.
Let's see.
In regards to your CapEx this year I think you said it was around $21 million.
You're looking for $32 million this year.
Can you talk about what part of that is maintenance and why the spending is roughly 50% higher this year? We have -- the basket that we have here we account for restructuring dollars in CapEx similarly there's -- in terms of the use of cash for long-term benefits.
Maintenance here it runs around $10 million to $12 million if you look backwards in time.
Haven't challenged that type of spending.
I think it's appropriate if you look at spending per plant for the type of machines we have.
I think that's about right.
I haven't benchmarked it Adam maybe you have against our peers.
But I can tell you the type of spending request that have come in they're valid.
It's work that needs to be done to sustain thus we already have.
With regards to the extra spending over and above that we're being much more aggressive about repositioning our cost structure and pursuing new products.
The products the new products that I was speaking about they do require CapEx they do require machine modifications and we have an opportunity here to permanently take out some plants and eliminate fixed costs.
I mentioned in the last call also that we're looking at 2 low-cost countries for the future home of some of our assets as we close plants.
We're very very close to picking our first location in a low-cost country.
We're not ready to announce it yet.
We're still we're negotiating.
And so we are also -- that requires capital.
That's -- we're not looking to buy buildings.
We're hoping to rent them but there is brick-and-mortar per se for foundations for our type of equipment that we have.
So some of it is in physical plant.
Most of it is machinery and refurbishment and redeployment of existing machines that we have.
Okay.
So maybe I don't want to put words in your mouth but of the $30 million it sounds like maybe 1/3 is maintenance 1/3 might be new product spending and 1/3 perhaps the restructuring charges and cost takeouts.
Would that be fair to say? Or...
I think that's a little heavy on the new product side.
It's more heavily towards cost reduction than that.
We have an opportunity-rich environment here in terms of taking cost out.
And I would say that it's more like 1/2 to 2/3 of it is taking cost out.
A portion of it -- a portion of that is new products but we don't keep track of it that way internally.
So I'm not ducking the question.
We just don't keep it track of it in this manner.
That's okay.
And the last question I had Harold is I think you've been there now what maybe 6 7 months if that's right? That's right.
Can you maybe talk about what are the best things you've seen with the organization? Maybe what are the not so great things from the organization and how you plan to address those and what you've seen in your first 6 or 7 months of going around meeting the employees and going around and seeing the plants? Yes I've been to 19 of the 30 plants.
Dave Pretty is -- and I are leaving for Europe tomorrow.
We're going to hit a few more.
We've been going and basically setting the table for what we want to do going forward here on being more cost-efficiency minded and then also bringing people into the loop -- into the tent if they are connected to a restructuring project.
So our research and projects are touching a lot of people in a lot of plants.
So when you close a plant and redeploy the machines they don't all go to one place.
So there's a lot of people involved with the 4 plants that we're closing right now a lot of people.
And so we're monitoring those.
We have a consistent way of tracking the cost-out projects here.
We have approximately 300 projects.
They're all tracked in the same manner.
They're tracked by the same lady.
They're reporting to Cliff and we track them by each regional presence.
So we're kind of locked and loaded to grind on that one.
In terms of impressions that thing that has borne out to be true is the opportunity to reduce cost permanently.
And we're on a pay-as-you-go program and we are definitely all over that one.
The strongest point we have probably is our product portfolio and product performance.
As I've gone around and met customers and worked with our sales team we have a product portfolio that really is second to none.
We have a lot of #1 positions.
We're #2 globally overall but -- and there's a lot of cases where we're #1.
We're the #1 forming fabric supplier in China.
We're #1 in intelligent SMART rolls.
We're #1 in a lot of spots where you want to be #1.
We're not #1 in some areas that are -- don't make a lot of money.
We're not #1 in dryers.
There's some areas where we're not #1 but our product portfolio is really strong and our people are really all over the next generation of those products.
And the value-selling approach we have which we call "Value Results " works.
And we sell total cost of operating on the line.
And it takes -- it diminishes the talk about pricing.
And we just won a supplier of the year award at Cascades in Canada.
And the reason why we got that award was because we helped them reduce their costs more than anyone and we did that with our premium products.
So that is really neat.
I didn't know that coming in because I'm not from the industry.
And that's -- it's such a solid solid product line.
I'm really happy with what we're doing in Asia.
We're one of the top market suppliers there.
And we're selling the right way and we're getting positions approved at the right customers and the right spots so very sustainable.
So the way that our sales team is going after customers and markets is a sustainable business.
Those are strong impressions that I have.
The team here is really solid industry veterans and our clients really desire sustainability and we're all over that as well.
And our selling approach is -- it's right.
It's very consistent with the market.
We are right in there so I've been very happy with the opportunity to take cost out of the business while sustaining the way that we've always sold.
And by the next generation and the continual evolution of our products I haven't had to touch it.
It's solid.
The only thing I've done is I've accelerated a few gaps that we had in the product line and we'll be rolling out a really really important new product this year in the second half.
I don't want to say what it is yet.
We'll do a press release on it but it's a product we don't offer right now really a hot market in the tissue market globally.
And if you're from the industry you'll figure out what we don't have.
But we're fixing to have one and we're on full development on that.
And we're going to grow in paper.
We're not afraid of paper.
We love paper.
We'll grow in paper and with equal gusto we're going to grow outside of paper.
So I haven't had to do much there but listen and get behind initiatives that we had underway.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rosencrans of Value Advisory.
Most of my questions were addressed.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of John Koerber of Bennett.
A lot of my questions have been answered and I greatly appreciate a lot of the commentary.
Could you talk a little bit about Asia because -- this is like a 10-K question I think you guys were down year-over-year in Asia and I was wondering why that occurred? No we weren't down year-over-year.
Sorry for that perception but while the accountants -- No the -- yes sales in Asia were up year-over-year.
I think we had pretty strong year.
Tom you want to...
Yes John this is Tom.
Yes this is Tom Johnson.
I'm the President of Asia.
And so let me talk about Q1 first.
If -- when I take a look at where our sales and orders are for the first 2 months of the quarter we've got very good sales and very strong orders.
The way EBITDA looks so far is it's significantly up over last year.
We've got some processes that as Harold has mentioned earlier in our "Value Results" program where we have documented cost savings at some very significant customers.
And we are seeing a lot of interest in expanding that process.
In fact we've added to that "Value Results" group because at this point going into 2013 we weren't able to deal with all the requests we're getting either for trials or for new value projects.
So for us Asia is looking really good in 2013.
Okay that's great.
A question that no one asked is I think this is the second quarter in a row that you guys haven't done slides.
Is that a policy or do you think in future your calls will contain slides? I'm not against slides.
Actually I took a shot at them they were kind of ugly so I withdrew them.
But I intend to communicate graphically together.
And if you have any favorite slides let Cliff know.
And I would also like to say that Tom's comment that he was making regarding Q1 are through January and February only as are our comments today.
We're obviously not finished with March.
But Asia is really strong for us.
It's not declining it's growing.
We're investing in it.
And we're getting our fair share of that market as it develops and grows.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Just one more.
I think I saw it in one of -- or maybe in the K but you guys expect cash restructuring costs of $10 million this year.
Is that correct? Cash restructuring cost for 2013 or 2012 Richard? Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> 2013.
We're looking.
Oh yes.
Those -- that reference in the 10-K relates to approved programs and the cash that we're going to have to pay on those programs this year.
Anything that has not been announced would not be included so there's no unannounced spending included in that number.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Right.
And that number is not inclusive in the $32 million of CapEx correct? No.
CapEx is a separate component.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then with the rate on your term loan are you guys thinking about doing anything there to potentially reduce your cash interest expense? We're open minded at all times to improve our capital structure.
We have nothing formal underway at this time.
We are definitely evaluating our opportunities including a very hot market as you know.
You have a follow-up question from the line of Howard Rosencrans of Value Advisory.
In terms of taxes and I don't have the -- we don't have the full -- cash flow statement yet full cash flow statement here but can you tell us what you paid in cash taxes the -- in '12? And what you -- based on your -- I'm not trying to put words in your mouth but you had you have $90 million-ish in adjusted EBITDA in '12 and maybe it will be up  $12 million in '13.
Can you give us a sense of where in -- I don't know it's subject obviously to which market you make money in or lose money in.
But can you give us a sense of where cash taxes will run '12....
Howard the cash taxes in '12 were about $7 million okay.
In '13 we really don't want to give any forward guidance on that.
So I'd prefer not to answer that at this time.
Okay.
So just in terms of sort of the stuff that's coming out of your pocket you got the $32 million for the CapEx.
You got another $10 million for cash restructuring on top of that and then you have another -- and then you have whatever you'll have in cash taxes.
And that's what we know as of today and then based on your current run rate $36 million-ish in cash increase.
Is that...
Yes that's fair.
This concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Harold Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you Dominique.
Thank you everyone for calling in and being interested in Xerium.
We're pretty excited here.
We know the fourth quarter met some of the external expectations we knew that going in.
We knew that we were going to look at all our accruals at year-end.
We're very happy with our operating performance so if you peel it back on our gross margins and our sales we have a steady business and we're building upon that.
We're taking costs out around that.
We're rightsizing our cost structure around that size of a business.
And we're growing in the right spots and with the right products.
So couple of comments were made here obviously on -- relative to the first quarter January and February are just fine.
Quarter is not over but we were happy to make those.
And we really appreciate the questions that were there.
If you have any follow-up questions afterwards feel free to contact Cliff Pietrafitta or Kevin McDougall.
With that I'd like to close the call.
And thank you for calling in.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call on May 8 2013.
I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis the CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after market closed on Tuesday May 7 2013 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Tuesday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today May 8 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility covenants and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's first quarter performance.
I'd also like to inform you that the senior executives of Xerium are on the phone with us to participate during the question-and-answer session.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2013 was $29.1 million bringing last 12 months EBITDA up to $99.6 million or 18.3% of net sales.
The quarterly EBITDA performance was an increase of 41% from $20.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and an increase of 55% versus the first quarter of 2012.
The sequential increase reflects a  better-than-expected sales mix in the first quarter of 2013 compared to a worse-than-average mix in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our gross margin performance over the past 12 months is fairly consistent with our goal of a 37% gross margin baseline and our cost-reduction initiatives are on track in the quarter.
Net sales for the quarter were $139.8 million.
The industries served by Xerium remain stable globally overall according to external forecast.
Net sales and margins in the first quarter were higher than last year's averages due to normal fluctuations in the timing of sales and product mix.
We remain optimistic that external market forecasts are realistic and that our sales performance will continue to be similar.
Backlog at the end of the first quarter remained solid at $166 million.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $400.9 million and last 12 months EBITDA was $99.6 million as I just mentioned creating net leverage of 4.0x.
We are currently underway with a refinancing of a portion of our debt.
We are pleased with the company's first quarter of 2013 results.
Our sales performance has been fairly consistent now for the last year with normal quarter-to-quarter sales mix variations.
If you look at our sales over a few quarters the business has been pretty steady.
We have some regional contractions and/or expansions due primarily to paper and containerboard segment shifts that are well documented.
We are underway with some fundamental repositioning activities and they are on track.
Our actions in the quarter were on pace to achieve the previously announced plan to lower our costs $12 million net year-over-year in 2013.
With regards to a potential refinancing of a portion of our debt we remain optimistic that we'll complete this refinancing in May and we will issue a press release at that time describing the terms of the refinancing.
Now I'll turn the call over to with Cliff Pietrafitta for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Harold.
Sales for the quarter increased 4% to $139.8 million from $134.4 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Sales volume increased 4.8% from an operational standpoint offset by 0.8% of unfavorable currency effects compared to the first quarter of 2012.
This operational increase was comprised of a 2.4% increase in our clothing business and a 9.5% increase in our rolls business primarily as a result of increased strength in Asia North America and Europe.
On a sequential basis sales for the first quarter increased 4.5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Machine clothing sales were up 1.7% while roll sales improved 9.5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Compared to the fourth quarter of '12 machine clothing improved in Asia and Europe while the improvement in our rolls business was largely due to increased roll cover sales in North America and Europe.
Gross margin as a percentage of sales improved to 39% of sales in the first quarter of 2013 from 34.6% of sales in the first quarter of 2012 largely as a result of reduced operating costs as a result of restructuring savings and operational efficiencies favorable product mix and favorable currency impacts.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 gross margin dollars improved 16% while gross margin as a percentage of sales improved from 35.1% to 39% of sales in the first quarter of 2013 as higher sales volume incremental savings from cost-reduction programs and favorable product mix combined to significantly improve gross profit and gross margins in the quarter.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs decreased 11.2% to $35.8 million for the first quarter of 2013 from $40.3 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The favorable variance to the prior year's first quarter is due to: savings achieved from our restructuring and cost-reduction activities; the absence of CEO transition costs from 2012; a gain from the recovery of insurance proceeds from a plant fire; and favorable currency effects.
Restructuring cost decreased to $1.3 million in the quarter from $4 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The decrease is largely attributable to the termination of a sales agency agreement in Europe in 2012.
2013 cost of $1.3 million included severance and other costs related to headcount reductions as well as shutdown costs related to operations in France and Argentina.
Income from operations increased in the first quarter of 2013 to $17.4 million from $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Improved sales volume higher gross margins lower SG&amp;A and research and development costs all contributed to this positive result.
Net interest expense improved 4.2% to $9.2 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $9.6 million in the first quarter of 2012.
This decline in interest expense reflects lower debt balances and favorable currency effects offset by a 75 basis point increase in the interest rate of our bank debt related to the amendment of our bank facilities in June 2012.
Cash interest expense in the quarters ended March 31 2013 and 2012 was $8.5 million.
Income tax expense increased to $2.5 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $0.7 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase in income tax reflects the improvement in our pretax results from a pretax loss of $6.9 million in the first quarter of 2012 to pretax income of $8 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Our overall effective tax rate for the period presented was 31.3% and is currently expected to be 55.4% for the full year.
The volatility in our effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
We expect cash taxes to be approximately 35.4% of pretax income for the full year.
Net income and diluted earnings per share increased to a net income of $5.5 million or $0.36 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013 from a net loss of $7.5 million or $0.50 in the first quarter of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure by which we manage compliance with our existing financing agreements and provides both a liquidity and financial performance measure of our business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2013 increased to $29.1 million from $18.8 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Trade working capital increased to $138.7 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $131.1 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The increase primarily reflects the impact of higher sales on quarter-end accounts receivable.
Day sales outstanding at the end of the first quarter improved to 57.1 days from 59.7 days at the end of last year.
Cash expenditures for the year-to-date period ended March 31 2013 totaled $3.7 million.
We currently expect 2013 capital expenditures to be approximately $34 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $10.3 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Included in this result were restructuring payments of $4.7 million in the quarter.
At quarter end we had $40.8 million of cash on hand and $24.9 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
At this point I would like to point out a minor correction to the adjusted EBITDA reconciliation on the last page of the press release.
The heading in the last column should read 12 months ended March 31 2013.
Thank you Cliff.
With that it concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready for questions.
Danita may we have the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Richard Kus with Jefferies.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> So as far as the $12 million of net cost saves go can you guys just update us on where you were on a run rate basis as of the end of the first quarter? And then maybe a little bit on how you expect the remainder of that to phase in throughout the rest of the year? Yes Richard.
We really were right on track with where we expected to be and really have no change to that guidance at this point.
We expect to hit the $12 million as we discussed last quarter.
I can elaborate Richard a little bit on that.
We're -- we have yet to take all actions.
So there are additional actions planned for cost reduction in the second quarter and in the third quarter so we're not at full run rate yet Richard there's a build through the year.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> And then with regards to the positive mix that you guys saw in the quarter do you see that carrying over into 2Q a little bit? What are your expectations there? And then if you could actually just provide a little bit of additional detail on what constituted that favorable product mix would be great.
Sure.
Globally our sales are in line with the external forecast that we all see from RISI of a little bit of growth this year versus last year.
We're seeing that and our sales rates are continuing along those lines in the quarter that we're in.
We continue to have a healthy backlog and the mix that we refer to -- a good mix for us as you can see our releases rolls are a little more profitable than clothing and we reported that our roll sales were up in the quarter higher than our unit sales of clothing.
So we -- that's the positive mix.
Rolls did better than clothing and therefore we benefited from that.
That's going to come and go though because rolls are somewhat at the discretion of our customer when they pick them up.
We repair them when we receive them and they pick them up and reinstall them or position them as a spare at their convenience.
So the sales rate in rolls are a little bit lumpy.
We expect the mix to calm down a little bit in this quarter back to kind of the historical averages and we're already seeing that a little bit.
Richard I would add that the mix within those product lines within PMC and within rolls was also favorable.
So we saw sales of higher-margin products in a bit of an unusual or -- unusual pattern.
That varies from quarter-to-quarter.
So where we had 39% margins in the first quarter we would expect that over time based on the current book of business 37% is a good target for us as we look forward.
Inc.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay great.
Very helpful.
And then lastly with regards to the capital structure and everything you guys have been doing out there in the market.
Are you guys are comfortable with where the cap structure is right now? Do you see opportunity for further bond repurchases that kind of thing? Well we have opportunity to do that and we will do that from time to time if the economics are proper.
You probably can see that our bonds are bid at 104 right now too.
But if market conditions change that might be an opportunity.
But we have the opportunity to pay our debt down each strata as we have the spare cash to do so and we intend to continue to delever.
That is the goal of the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rosencrans with Value Advisory.
It's actually Brian Warner.
In your 10-Q you make a reference to -- in response to some I guess inquiries from some of your customers you are mitigating some initiatives -- and I cannot remember whether you called it the mechanical services or what I might call the maintenance biz.
Can you just give us a little color on that? Sort of if you've actually taken any initiatives towards that end and what that business might mean to the company? Yes.
Brian this is Harold.
I'm going to answer it a little bit and then I'm going to ask Dave Pretty to step in he's our President of the U.S -- North America and Europe -- to elaborate.
The services -- the roll repair business is largely a service business.
We're repairing a part of the machine that is worn down through use.
And the machines come out with these new OEM equipment when they buy new machines and then they're repaired and serviced over their lifetime and we're an expert at doing that.
We're one of the largest in the world at providing that service.
As time has gone by and as some of the paper mills have downsized their technical staff they've asked for more and more services to be provided by their suppliers and that includes vibration testing nondestructive testing to look for cracks in cores and this kind of a thing as well as machining of and repair and refurbishment of suction boxes and mechanical ends.
And we're all over that topic.
And what we do by bundling the sale of a new piece of clothing with the recovered roll we're really after the performance of the nip.
And that particular area of the machine is where a lot of important things happen for the fiber orientation the water extraction the energy usage to create either paperboard cardboard corrugated medium or paper.
And so the engineering of that nip is a big deal.
And the maintenance of that nip is a big deal.
And so there's a lot of ancillary equipment around that and measurements around that.
And we have both pushed that as an agenda and then pulled into it as our customers have become aware of that and as they've downsized their own teams.
So it's a growing area of our business.
We are investing into it.
We are adding people and know-how into it and it's working quite well.
And as you can see from our early [ph] statements it's accretive.
I'm going to turn the mic over here to Dave Pretty for any additional elaboration on that.
David? Yes thank you Harold.
I think in short the idea that our clients have outsourced their maintenance work on their rolls we're creating an environment where we're a one-stop shop.
So not only do we create value with our clothing and our coverage  technology we're able to address the maintenance issues the refurbishment of the rolls inside our facilities.
And that momentum has gone over really well with our client base.
And as a result we've added capability we've added shifts to our rolls facilities and we see that agenda moving forward into the ensuing years.
So it's a great platform to work from.
Your next question comes from the line of John Robert (sic) [Koerber] with Bennett Management.
My name is John Koerber.
I've got a couple of questions.
You talked about the 37% gross margin.
For clarification is that the number you're targeting? Or with any additional cost saves or the costs you're taking out of the system will it be better than 37%? It's -- I'm not clear on that.
That's a good question.
37% is our historical baseline and we do want to add to it.
We also have inflation in the business wage inflation medical cost inflation and -- but our goal our multi-year goal is to work that number up.
For this year the guidance and expectations that we're setting for others is to expect 37% out of us.
We certainly are trying to move that up over time through both sales mix actions specifically the comments that were just made about rolls and services are -- push that number up but also through our actions to reduce our fixed overhead cost structure and our low-cost country production program.
So we want to move that up.
We haven't given guidance on -- a multi-year guidance on what we're trying to do there.
And so we've been saying that number because it's been a historical number for us and we also said it because the first quarter was higher than what we had expected and it was really sales mix dictated.
So that should be what you expect from us this year John.
In a multi-year plan we are trying to move it up.
I'll ask Cliff if -- Cliff Pietrafitta if he has any further comments.
No I agree with that.
The 37% is really our historical baseline.
As we have initiatives to improve margins we would like to see that rate move up.
But there is as Harold mentioned there is wage inflation and things like that the are going to be an offset as we go forward.
So at this point in time we're really focused on ensuring that the market understands that our historical run rates when you average out the quarters is around that 37% level.
Okay.
I have some clean-up or clarifying questions then.
I see on your balance sheet and it kind of showed up at -- in the 10-K but I didn't pick it up then you have a note payable in your current liabilities.
What is that? That is an Austrian working capital loan.
Basically we use the proceeds from that to pay down our bank debt so it was really just an arbitrage on interest rates that we used to enhance the working capital structure.
Do you anticipate that you'll be paying that off or is that a permanent part of your capital structure even if it's in current liabilities? We don't anticipate paying it off right now.
We like that piece debt.
And right now there's no plan to pay that off.
Okay.
What -- you gave us backlog at year -- at the quarter at $166 million.
I don't have it on my spreadsheet.
What was backlog at year end? It was a little higher.
We worked a little off.
The plants had a good quarter for us particularly in the rolls.
We have quite a bit of backlog here and we've authorized our plants to staff up in certain instances where our lead times are too long.
We're sensitive to our lead times to our customers.
They do have schedules they manage around for shutdowns and preventive maintenance schedules.
So we thought our lead times was getting a bit long and we authorized working down the backlog a little bit.
Okay.
Finally I believe in the K you gave out this breakout that paper producers were about 81% of your sales paper machine manufacturers were 7% and other industrial apps were around 12%.
In the first quarter did that -- did those percentages hold or are they different? And what I'm really trying to get at it is I know you've talked about perhaps finding other industrial users for your product and has there been any success in doing that? Well I can tell you that the market for our building products the fiber cement felt as the building industry has recovered definitely in North America and Asia has continued to power through right through all of this.
Our building products business continues to grow.
We have a great product line there.
We're one of the global leaders in providing that.
And we've seen our sales activities outside of paper continue to gain strength.
With regards to the ratios and percents we don't really track that that much.
I would guess that to be similar there wasn't really any huge event that happened.
There's incremental positive sales actions.
And Cliff we don't track that separately...
We track it for the annual report that's not something we'll track quarterly.
Okay.
And I guess every call I always ask to see a slide presentation.
I'd be remissed if I forgot to do that again this quarter.
But Harold I'm getting the sense that you really don't believe in slides.
I like slides.
That's what you said last time.
What slide is it that you really want John? Market penetration on different types of paper machine.
I'll make a -- I'll comment on it next time.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer with Pressprich.
Can you talk a little bit about inventory levels at your customers and what you're seeing from them right now? Yes that's one we don't track at my level.
If you don't mind can I go around the horn [ph] to our business president? Sure.
Whatever you want.
I'll start with Tom Johnson who's our President of Asia.
Adam what we're seeing is based on the country and I'll give Indonesia as an example.
We're seeing our customer inventories down.
We're seeing good demand out of Indonesia.
China on the other hand would be running at a steady state.
Japan slightly down.
Overall probably running to average.
Not much change? No.
Dave Pretty could you -- President of North America and Europe could you comment please? Sure Harold.
Adam as far as the North American theater is concerned really with the contracts and the agreements that we have in place whether it's consignment or we share the inventory burden we have seen no momentum changes in our markets here.
Certainly nothing commercially that's changed it.
With respect to Europe while again managing the balance sheet is important for our clients it's the same for us.
And so one of the strengths that we've had is being able to negotiate with our clients and set terms for inventory.
We've seen no momentum shifts in Europe with the client base that we deal with either.
And I can say I know Eduardo Fracasso's on the phone he's our President of South America I know he's on mute right now I'll answer for him.
There have been some new machines in South America built for pulp for making of pulp.
So there's been some new OEM machines have gone in.
And regarding the production of paper the paper industry's pretty flat there and to my knowledge there's not much change in customer inventories.
Okay that's great.
I really appreciate that.
Do you -- can you comment at all about what you're seeing for Q2 in terms of revenues versus Q1 or versus last year at this time with the quarter half over? Yes our revenue's going to be similar to the first quarter.
We haven't had any change with regards to the momentum we have in the business.
As Cliff and I both mentioned our mix is going to be not as good in the second quarter as the first quarter.
The quarter's not over.
We're still working that.
But first quarter was exceptionally good.
Our sales performance was good.
We were up in the Americas up in Europe up in Asia and we still have the same momentum.
We didn't do anything natural -- that's -- unnatural -- that's natural momentum we have and it is still underway in April.
We do know April now.
April was fine to your point and we have a nice a backlog and not much change in the business.
The sales is going to be similar.
Your next question comes from the line of Prateek Gupta with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> My question is regarding the general decline in the writing grade paper.
As that segment of the paper industry shrinks at least in the -- at least in this part of the world how does that affect your sales? I mean do your customers demand cheaper products from you guys or -- and does that impact your margins at all? Can you comment on that? Yes printing and writing decline globally is a big deal for the whole industry.
Printing in the fine paper grades use a high-end forming fabric and they use pretty good press felts.
And so the industry is impacted by that.
The iPad came out in 2010.
There are now through January was 31% of adults in North America have one.
So the tablet and electronic communications substitution for written printing and writing is well underway.
And if you go to a RISI  conference or look at desktop materials in the industry that is a market segment that will decline.
Xerium is very diversified across all grades of paper.
And if you look at the offset to the decline it's really in GDP-related materials tissue packaging -- that would be corrugated box board containerboard.
And so if you look at GDP in North America it's 2.5% growth right now expected to go to 3.5% by year end.
Europe is still in a recession at the end of Q1 but expected to come out of it in this quarter.
And Asia's still growing strongly.
China reported 8% GDP growth and their outlook for the next 3 years is for 8%.
Again so if you look at those grades we're up and we're participating in those increases.
Fiber cement is a certain type of felt also that's up a lot.
If you look at housing starts in North America they're around 800 000 start rate right now and expected to go back to 1.2 million 1.3 million.
And so we're seeing significant growth in those type of products.
So printing and writing does matter.
It has a mix impact so fiber cement is heavier on the felt side less on the forming side.
Tissue's heavier on the forming side.
Containerboard has a little of both.
So there's some net movement of specific products that are important to note.
And when we talk about repositioning the company that's exactly what we're talking about.
We're talking about getting organized around these market shifts.
We're very diversified.
We have the assets to do this.
But it does require action.
And we also are having to act to address these growing markets.
We're seeing strong growth in certain grades of products that we have and extended lead times.
So we did announce also Prateek earlier that we had ordered a Delo machine which is a big huge -- installed those are $10 million.
And ancillary equipment that go around it.
So we're actually adding capacity in the growing segments and in the areas that are shrinking we're repositioning our assets into the markets that are growing.
So we have a geographic mix that's happening and then we have a grade-specific mix.
We have the assets to do this in most cases.
But -- in these really high-end products that we were machine-constrained and we have ordered some new equipment to pursue that growth.
And in our multi-year outlook we will continue to do so.
We're just on the verge of authorizing our next round of equipment in that arena.
And we've discussed previously that we're looking at China and Mexico as low-cost country destinations for production and that requires some investment as well.
So printing and writing decline is alive and well.
The boom and bust that happened in North America and is happening in Europe is not predicted to happen in China for instance.
They've gone directly to electronic communications.
So they're not expected to see disruption that has happened in North America first which really hammered Canada and then the U.S.
as those grades went away and machines that were custom designed to do printing and writing grades of paper as those companies restructured -- and closed down -- that disruption is not expected to hit Asia.
So we're not seeing the boom and bust.
We're seeing the GDP-type products growing there.
So I think it's just going to be something that doesn't happen in Asia predominantly.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So as you focus on aligning yourself with the mix what do you see in terms of CapEx requirements for this year and maybe the next 2 3 years if you have visibility into that? As Cliff mentioned our budget guidance for this year is $34 million and our multi-year outlook is $30 million so this year is a little higher than normal because we are doing some -- a little stronger set of restructuring actions than normal.
We do intend to -- we do have a multi-year restructuring plan and buildup plan so we do -- we are growing in Asia significantly.
We grew in the quarter.
We're growing now.
It's a growth market for us.
We have a very diversified product line there.
We have 5 plants in the region.
We recover rolls we provide roll services we make machine clothing there we have a bundled sale it's a big deal for us and we're right in the middle of it.
And we will continue to add assets in the region as it grows.
We don't have the amount of extra capacity needed.
If you look out over a 5-year timeframe and look at the amount of growth that's going to happen in that region we have to continue to move assets there and buy new assets that are dialed in for that market.
The electrical requirements of equipment are different there than some of our machines in other regions and there are import duties on machines as well.
So in some cases it's smarter to buy a new machines that's already built for that market.
And so we continue to go through that as we look at how to get the capacity in place to secure our market share in that region.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I've missed this but did you guys provide a guidance for 2013? Are you updating it? Anything on that front please? No we gave guidance in the first quarter that we would pull out $12 million of cost net this year net for wage inflation and for bonuses.
We had a wage increase.
We had a wage freeze that we've relieved now and we didn't pay bonuses last year and we're on track to pay bonuses this year.
So we're absorbing that and signing up for $12 million net of cost out of the business.
And someone on the last call asked "Should I just add that to last year's EBITDA." And I said "Yes that will be fine." And our first quarter was ahead of that guidance.
I'm not updating the guidance yet but yes we're ahead of it at this point in time.
So we're happy to be ahead of our guidance.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Harold Bevis for any closing remarks.
Thank you for that.
I appreciate everyone calling in.
It was a good quarter for us.
We were up in the  Americas up in Europe up in Asia.
Our sales and service and technical teams are doing a great job for us.
We continue to bundle our sale of rolls PMC and services.
It's working commercially.
I don't think you should expect step-change performance out of us but you should expect us to continue along the path that we are on.
This quarter -- the start to this quarter is similar to last quarter so I'm happy with the performance of our plants and our teams that are out there.
Appreciate everyone calling in.
The paper industry is definitely undergoing change we're changing with it.
And the non-paper industries that we are participating in are growing quite strongly and we have good shares there.
And you will see us make an announcement before the next call regarding our financial -- refinancing that we're doing excuse me of a portion of our bank debt.
And as we make decisions regarding our low-cost country locations and the moves that we'll make we'll put out a press release on that as well.
So you should expect to see us talking about the repositioning and restructuring activities that we have undergoing here.
And I hope to report a good quarter in our next call.
With that I'd like to end the call and thank everyone for participating today.
Thank you Danita.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call on August 2 2013.
I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we'll provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after market closed on Thursday August 1 2013 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our website at www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we'll make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Thursday's press release and in our SEC filings.
The forward-looking statements represent our view as of today August 2 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance.
And therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's second quarter performance.
I'd like to start off with significant highlights from the quarter and year-to-date periods.
Our quarter 2 sales were $138 million up 1.8% versus the prior year on a constant currency basis and our roll repair and mechanical services business unit grew 5% year-to-date which was higher growth than industry rates indicating a secular shift to outsource these services.
We also kicked off 10 new product development programs in 2013 so far aimed at generating incremental future sales growth above current rates and we have received 16 new patents this year so far with more expected in the next quarter.
We began implementing the previously announced 350-ton press felt expansion in multiple countries and also began implementing an expansion of our roll repair and mechanical services capacity at several roll service centers.
Both of these are aimed at generating incremental future sales growth above our current rates.
We continue the transformation of our operational structure with the previously announced closure of 4 manufacturing facilities and the expansion of 6 other manufacturing facilities.
Redeployment of the affected assets is underway.
Our sales per employee in the first half of 2013 are at a 4-year high of $173 000 per employee.
Our order backlog at June 30 2013 remained solid at $130 million -- $161 million.
In the quarter in the second quarter versus the second quarter of last year Xerium's orders overall were up 10% and in clothing only our orders were up 13%.
Pricing year-to-date for Xerium overall is stable and we've seen stability across the whole company with a few puts and takes across the regions.
In the second quarter we also refinanced a portion of our debt structure to increase liquidity lengthen our debt maturities and eliminate maintenance covenants while leaving our European assets unencumbered.
Also in the second quarter we incorporated a $75 million debt expansion provision into our new debt structure that can be used for bolt-on acquisitions or accelerating restructuring initiatives.
Our second quarter adjusted EBITDA was $26.9 million up 6% versus the prior year and increased our last 12-month adjusted EBITDA to $101.1 million which is also up 6% over the same prior period and is expected to increase in the second half of 2013.
Our net debt is $407.8 million and our leverage now stands at 4.0x.
Our 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA is now $56.0 million an increase of 27% over last year and ahead of our internal plans.
On a constant currency basis we expect the second half to be similar to the first half.
Xerium's stock has been added to 3 Russell equity indexes and our options on our stock have become available now on 4 exchanges.
The second quarter was another good quarter for both of our businesses.
Our synthetic textiles business and our service and repair business.
The paper industry is our primary end market and the industry growth is 1% or 2% according to published sources.
Our service and repair business continues to grow a little higher than that rate indicating a shift by our customers to perform these services externally versus internally.
A large portion of our higher growing areas are capacity limited and we are working to resolve these bottlenecks.
In almost all cases there are long lead times involved.
But we are setting the stage for higher growth and lower cost pointed at higher growing market opportunities.
These are long-term moves for the company.
Additionally we're expanding and increasing our sales growth initiatives especially outside of our core legacy markets.
I've personally been at Xerium less than a year.
However I have had the good opportunity to visit and assess almost all of our plants globally and have now met with all of our sales forces and technical teams.
Our unified goal is to think ahead and implement a lower-cost higher-growth business platform.
We have closed 4 plants so far and we do have a few more to go.
At the same time we've added technical staff we've added new product development programs and we've added high-end factory workers to advance our offerings.
We are transforming our company both operationally and commercially yet we are moving at a measured pace in order to ensure our expected quality levels.
We're also expanding plants in several areas as I've previously mentioned especially Asia geographically and our service product offering.
Xerium's skilled mechanics and our machinists are definitely a differentiator providing superior quality and customer value.
We have a very strong team and deep technology in what we do.
The second half of this year looks solid from an external forecast and backlog and we see the same in the fundamentals of the business.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance.
Cliff? Thank you Harold.
Net sales in the second quarter were $138.3 million an increase of 1.4% compared to $136.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding unfavorable currency effects of $500 000 second quarter 2013 net sales increased 1.8% from the second quarter of 2012 with an increase of 2.3% in the clothing segment and an increase of 0.8% in the rolls cover segment.
Net sales for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 were $278.1 million an increase of 2.7% from $270.7 million in 2012.
Excluding unfavorable currency effects of $1.5 million net sales for the 6 months ended June 30 2013 increased 3.3% from 2012 with an increase of 2.4% in the clothing segment and an increase of 5% in the rolls cover segment.
Gross profit increased $1.7 million or 3.3% and gross margin as a percentage of sales improved to 38.1% of sales in the second quarter of 2013 from 37.4% of sales in the second quarter of 2012.
These improved results were largely as a result of reduced operating cost due to restructuring savings and operational efficiencies.
For the 6 months ended June 30 2013 gross profit increased by 10% and gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 38.5% from 36% for the 6 months in 2012 as higher sales volume incremental savings from cost-reduction programs and favorable product mix combined to significantly improve gross profit and gross margins in the first half of the year.
Selling general and administrative expense and research and development cost decreased 0.8% to $35.7 million for the second quarter of 2013 from $36 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This favorable variance is due to savings achieved from our restructuring of cost reduction activities and the absence of CEO transition costs in 2013.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase of management incentive expense in 2013 and the reversal in 2012 of a contingent liability that was favorably resolved.
Restructuring cost increased to $4.2 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $1.1 million in the second quarter of 2012.
These included charges relating to previously announced headcount reductions the closure of clothing facilities in Spain and Argentina and the closure of a rolls facility in Charlotte North Carolina.
Net interest expense increased to $13.1 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $9.1 million in the second quarter of 2012.
The increase is primarily due to the financing fees paid in connection with our May 2013 refinancing that were charged to interest expense.
In addition we also recorded $3.1 million of loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the write-off of deferred financing costs related to our prior senior debt offering.
Cash interest expense or interest expense less amortization deferred financing costs and refinancing fees from our recent refinancing was $8.6 million for the second quarter of 2013 and $8.4 million for the second quarter of 2012.
In addition during the second quarter of 2013 we paid $7.4 million cash for fees related to the May 2013 refinancing of a portion of our debt $3.7 million was charged to interest expense and $3.7 million was capitalized and included in the deferred financing costs and long-term debt on the balance sheet.
Income tax increased to $3.5 million in the second quarter of 2013 from $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding the restructuring and debt refinancing expenses our effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2013 was 32%.
This overall effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit.
Our effective tax rate for the entire year is expected to be 84% or 33% excluding the restructuring and debt refinancing expense.
The volatility in our effective tax rates reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as in the United States where we receive no tax benefit.
Net income and diluted earnings per share decreased to a net loss of $6.9 million or 45% per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013 from net income of $2.2 million or $0.15 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding the refinancing fees the loss on early extinguishment of debt and restructuring cost net income would have increased in 2013 as a result of increased net sales and our cost reduction initiatives during the second quarter of 2013.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure which provides both the liquidity and financial performance measure of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2013 increased to $26.9 million from $25.4 million in the second quarter of 2012.
On a year-to-date basis adjusted EBITDA increased 27% to $56 million in 2013 from $44.2 million in 2012.
Trade working capital increased to $136.1 million at June 30 from $131.1 million at December 31 2012.
The increase was the result of increased sales volume impact on accounts receivable and a decrease in accounts payable as a result of increased capital expenditures at December 31 2012.
These increases were partially offset by decreased inventories on increased sales volume.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period ended June 30 2013 totaled $8.5 million.
We currently expect 2013 capital expenditures to be approximately $33 million.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $12.3 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Included in this result were restructuring payments of $10.1 million in the quarter.
At quarter end we had $36.5 million of cash on hand and $29 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready for questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> First question here.
Can you give us a little bit of an update on the amount of cost savings that you guys have achieved in numbers year-to-date relative to what your run rate is as you exit 2Q? Yes we can.
I'll do the first half Cliff you want to do the second half.
Sure.
Richard we're -- I think you know we're still kicking off new initiatives as we go here.
We're kind of pacing our activities to our ability to implement in a quality manner.
And we're not at full run rate yet.
We did have a plan this year to progressively add layers of cost take out and to pursue footprint restructuring when we were through with the first step that we were implementing.
So we're on that plan.
We're slightly ahead of ourselves -- of our plans in terms of taking actions and receiving the benefits of them.
And with regards to quantification of that Cliff I'll turn it to you.
Sure.
Richard we -- our savings for the first half of the year are going to be about $8 million for the first half okay.
So we are expecting that's ramping up.
We do expect to have increased savings as we go through the rest of the year.
Previously I had gone on the record -- if you remember Richard for the full year we're trying to get $12 million.
We have given that guidance out last time and we're ahead of our internal plan to do that.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
So that $8 million is actually a cost savings that you already realized? The $8 million is the gross cost savings that we realized year-to-date over last year yes.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then with regards to the margin performance you guys did pretty well there.
I'm talking gross margin here.
Do you believe that this 38-or-so percent level is something that's more normalized based on your mix this quarter? Or I know we have additional cost reduction actions but do we get further improvement in here based upon a more normalized mix? We have internal plans to improve that on a continuous improvement basis.
So if you look at what waste reduction and our procurement program does that does improve our gross profit.
So our profits and cost of goods sold do go down when we have less waste or we procure materials lower cost.
So we do have a plan to improve our gross profit per unit.
On a mix basis globally we see the same thing that Albany and others see which is the decline of graphical and printing and writing grades in the clothing side and the increases on the brown paper and the GMP kind of businesses.
And that's a negative mix for the industry and for us.
Overall we're trying to hold our gross profits were they are which will cause us to increase the gross profits on our line item basis.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay okay.
And then lastly it sounds like things are going pretty well in the roll and repair and mechanical services business.
How big do you envision this business getting and what kind of gross margins are you seeing relative to your other business? Well on the size of it this is a very very very large market.
This is the market where -- we're in this business and Albany is not.
So we compete against machine builders in this.
And this is where we go up against Voith and Metso and the machine guys who make a living in the aftermarket of repairing and caring and refurbishing machines that are installed.
And we're in that business.
And if you look at the turmoil that's happened in the industry globally a lot of our customers have trimmed their payroll they've rightsized their plant staffs and they've outsourced -- they continuously outsource these services.
We've been progressively stepping forward into that and since it was a natural thing for us to do because our rolls business fundamentally is an aftermarket repair and refurbishment business.
And so we continuously were getting asked to do more and more.
And we just aggressively said yes more and we've added capabilities.
For us that ends up being hiring training and doing apprenticeships for high-end mechanics.
We find ourselves with mechanical parts honing them refining lathes bearing structures turned parts that turned mechanical parts on the machines.
We find ourselves doing it on the machine in the plant.
We find ourselves taking these parts back to our shop.
They set the preference at the customer.
So it's a very very very large market.
And it's just not paper it's also in the flexible packaging industry the fiber cement industry non-woven production.
So the repair of large machines is a big big business.
There's no good third-party data and I've tried to look for it Richard because I've tried to see what our market share is for doing it.
As best we can tell us and Voith and that sort of the biggest guys globally doing it.
On the gross margin and gross profit Cliff? Mechanical services are generally in line or are higher than our roll cover business.
However there is a segment that we at this point are outsourcing and we get lower margins in that particular piece.
It really comes down to the mix of that business but it is a growth opportunity as we continue to invest in that business.
It's very similar to the rest of the business Richard.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Sure.
Okay.
And it sounds like that's something actually makes your other products stickier as well.
So it seems like that's definitely a good thing.
Your next question comes from the line of James Gentile [ph] of Greenhouse Fund.
I had a question about further restructuring.
Harold you quantified that there were "few more plants" that you would like to address in the coming periods.
Wondering if you could kind of give us a timeline and if it would mean that there could perhaps be another $12 million of cost saves in the system over some period of time in the future? Thanks James.
Definitely we see big projects left to do.
We've tried to be disciplined here and only spend a certain amount of money on CapEx and restructuring so that we don't get out of our skis with the model.
We do like to continue to pay debt down.
We could go faster that's a board-level talk on the pace at which we go.
We like the pace that we're at because we don't have an unlimited ability to implement large-scale projects either.
We have if you compare our gross profits in our clothing business to the gross profits to Albany who's a public reporter you'll see that theirs are a little better.
We had [indiscernible] ourselves.
They fixed themselves if you will a few years ahead of us.
They have bigger portion of their production in low-cost countries.
They're making a large part of their yarn.
They're getting a little bit better overhead absorption benefits due to their size also.
They're bigger than us twice as big actually.
For the parts that we can overcome we know how to overcome them and it does require big projects.
I can tell you that we have more left to do than we have done.
We haven't given guidance out yet in terms of long-term EBITDA for the company but we have very large projects left to do.
That's great Harold.
And just given some of the craziness in the market with GAAP EPS headlines and stuff I just wanted to go over the restructuring and financing cost.
And perhaps my math as I ran it through your P&amp;L if you had $12.8 million of operating income add back $4.2 million subtract your cash interest expense which I believe would be sustainable in this kind of $8.6 million plus a little bit range and tax it at your 32%.
The quarter looked between $0.33 and $0.37 if I look at -- if I included the small amount of amortization on that interest expense line to bring that up to $9.1 million.
Am I thinking about the quarter correctly? Yes.
I think that's accurate.
I would also look at it this way the restructuring cost we're a little late on and our capital spending has been a little lower in the first half of the year.
We expect both of those to be a little heavier from a timing aspect in the second half.
Great.
And then there is just one little commentary in the way of a certain bottlenecks in your faster growing higher-margin businesses.
I was wondering if you can kind of help us frame the dilution on the margins from that kind of -- from those bottleneck issues that you said over time will be alleviated? Well it really constrained our sales line.
We're more or less sold out in press felt production and that's why we announced the 350 ton expansion and the very short-term press felt plants are very capital-intensive.
And in the short term what we try to do is just optimize our operations where they are and increase our production.
And we have been doing that.
We did order a long lead time equipment for the next efficient unit of capacity for press felt production and we're looking at putting that in a low-cost country or our lowest cost operation ourself.
That's definitely a board decision and we're closing in on what we want to do there.
We haven't decided and we haven't made that public yet.
But we're flat out expanding our capacity with new machines and we're optimizing the existing capacity we have also.
So I wouldn't say it's a dilution really it's really a constraint.
Just slower growth on the top line.
That's great.
Yes.
It seems like the underlying free cash flow and margin story is very much intact here.
Good work.
I'm interested in watching the story unfold in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rosencrans of Value Advisory.
Harold regarding the -- you just made a comment regarding the press felt operation and the add of 350.
Could you quantify that? I don't know how big your press felt is and just give us a little more color as to what that can add? You mean dollar bills? Yes.
The sales line -- help me out guys.
240 is about -- I'm going to say it's around $30 million of sales at our normal rates.
Okay.
And you had said previously -- I'm still trying to get my hands around the whole tax situation and I know it's very complicated.
In terms of cash tax situation I know it's a subject of -- a function of where you make money and -- how should we be thinking about that? Well the cash taxes for the year we expect to be around $10 million -- I'm sorry $5 million.
That's a wrong number.
I'm sorry $5 million or $10 million? $5 million.
I picked up the wrong number my bad.
$5 million.
Okay.
And where do you feel like you are in terms of the capacity move from where -- Europe where you are -- have too much capacity and Asia where you don't have enough.
Where do you feel you are along in terms of being able to correct that? Well we have -- let's start with orders and then production.
On the orders in the second quarter on a constant currency basis our orders were up in Europe.
Our orders are up in Asia.
Our orders are up in North America.
Our orders are up in South America.
So -- and the market is up according to the RISI external information.
So we're up.
Our order increases in Asia they are accretive to the overall company gave out -- company numbers I gave out previously in my talk.
And you're right we do supplement our production in the region with production in other regions.
But we've optimized our raw material set ups on our looms and machines to produce certain products for everyone.
We have a low-cost logistic system that we partner with and do.
We have a container kind of a milk run we do from our plants to a single warehouse in Singapore and ship directly from there to customers.
It's quite good and it works.
It's low cost.
So we don't find ourselves at a disadvantage there and that's been going on for quite a long time.
So we do have some imbalances across the geographies yes we do.
But in the cases where we're long in capacity they're in our lower-cost locations.
So we're not extremely disadvantaged.
But if we look at putting in new capacity we certainly would want to be in the trade market.
And that's what our intentions are.
So on the rolls and services business that's quite different.
That's about regional competitiveness.
Rolls are heavy.
They weigh up to 80 tons.
You need to be close to the action and more and more we're getting a call out to do this service in the plant itself.
So we have a big service staff in that side of our business.
If you look at -- this customer back Albany is about twice the size that we are in clothing.
But we have 3 different product lines.
We have clothing coverings and mechanical services.
So to our customers we're just as large but we're selling them 3 different things.
And so we have that staff in there.
They're very trained.
They're very skilled because they have to know how to apply clothing.
They have to know how to do assessments on roll covers and especially the SMART roll offering and ever-increasing being able to have the mechanical services on the machines.
So our staff that we have out there we can afford really high-end trained staff because they're selling 3 different product lines.
So they held it together.
Where the product comes from our customers are a little bit indifferent.
We have the same quality standards in all the plants.
In terms of profitability on the table yes there's a little bit of efficiency there on logistics but we do have a low-cost logistic set up that works quite well and we partner with one of the largest freight carriers [ph] in the world.
A few more quickies.
You have the $2.8 million was that a sort of -- that management incentive cash was that sort of onetime? And the other couple of [indiscernible] is that a seasonal and not a onetime? And you said the orders were up at rolls 10% in clothing 13%.
I would think that would suggest that your second half would be better year-to-year.
And how much business do you think you're going to do in maintenance this year? Okay.
One correction Howard.
Xerium overall second quarter to second quarter last year was up 10%.
That includes rolls and clothing.
Clothing in and of itself was up 13%.
Put that out because we get compared to Albany and people want clean numbers for comparison reasons so we report both.
So the difference therein is the rolls number.
Yes you're correct.
Our second half is going to be better than the second half of last year according to our current backlog and the fundamentals of our business.
So we do have a strengthened business in the second half with regards to comparison to last year.
And then the guidance that we gave out here to set expectations is -- depending on what currency does on a constant currency basis we see the second half of this year similar to our first half.
And maintenance how much are you doing in that business presently? The mechanical services business? Yes.
The whole rolls business is kind of a maintenance and aftermarket business.
We take rolls off of a machine.
Usually they're worn down.
The most common request we get is to regrind it rebalance it resurface it.
We take that roll into our shop.
We do our evaluations.
We turn it we regrind the surface.
Return it to its original condition send it back.
We can do that 2 or 3 times and at that point we have to completely take the cover off and reapply a complete cover to it.
To our customers that is an aftermarket -- that is maintenance.
To them if you look at the plant budget to them for maintenance CapEx that's in their maintenance budget.
So we're in their operating budgets to do that.
The mechanical services what I was referring to other is something that's been evolving over the last few years which is the apparatus that a lot of these rolls attach to and the working positions are called suction boxes.
And they're big mechanical contraptions that have a lot of parts to them and they themselves also have to be maintained.
In the past we haven't done a lot of that the machine builders have done it or specialized service houses and we've been stepping forward into it.
With regards to the size of the business we haven't really given out any global information.
But I can tell you that in North America those businesses are roughly the same size.
The service business and the roll covering business very similar size.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Craig Hoagland of Anderson Hoagland &amp; Co.
Yes.
Could you just speak a little bit about the balance sheet and if you have targets for debt reduction or leverage for this year going forward? We have not get given any guidance regarding debt pay down or leverage.
However we have a consistent goal to pay debt down.
We haven't bracketed a certain amount and the -- it's really a board kind of decision.
And the type of thinking we get into is do we -- what's the best use of our capital? Is it to accelerate our restructuring and to get after the next batch of EBITDA? Or is it to pay that debt down.
And we've been doing a little of each.
If you do the math here we are having a cash generative year.
So we'll be coming to that decision in the second half and not really the first half.
We're kind of on plan with what we wanted to do a little bit of timing delays with regards to payments to people.
But we've taken actions we want to take and now have the impact that we expected them to have.
But in the second half we're probably looking at do we want to pull forward the project from 2014 and start it now or do we want to pay debt down.
We're not -- we don't have guidance on that.
With regards to leverage yes we do want to be below 4x we intend to get there.
And if you kind of do the math that we've given out here you can see that we are going to be below 4x.
We're at 4x right now and things are improving.
So we're headed in the 3s.
We're comfortable with that.
That's very doable.
Our cash interest expense and the other ramifications of that level of debt work in terms of what we want to do with capital spending.
And our sales growth is in a band of possibilities because of the amount of capacity we have.
So we're happy with where we are.
We don't really want to give guidance out on debt reduction or target leverage rates at this point.
That's about the most I can tell you Craig.
Okay.
So it sounds like with the growth in the profitability the debt levels are seeming more sustainable and supportable and so the urgency there is moderating is that...
Yes.
With the refinancing that we've done really we've really -- we really put ourselves in a position to evaluate growth opportunities or suspend paying down the debt as opposed to other types of issues with covenants and things of that nature.
There are no additional questions at this time.
I would like to hand the call back over to Harold Bevis President and CEO.
Thank you everyone for calling in this morning and also for the questions that were asked we appreciate it.
Keeps us on our toes.
And the questions picked up the correct fact which is we did have a good quarter.
And the actions taken by the leadership team here at the company and by our plant teams to deliver quality products is working fine.
We're happy with our business right now.
We don't see any fundamental weaknesses.
And versus our second half of last year we do see a better second half this year versus last year if these fundamentals continue.
So thank you very much for being interested in our company.
And with that we'll conclude the call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Xerium Technologies Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call on November 7 2013.
My name is Emily and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please proceed.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies' third quarter 2013 financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis the CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning then we will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter.
Subsequently we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies' financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after market closed on Wednesday November 6 2013.
And we're also announcing a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Identification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I'd also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2013.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Wednesday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represents our review as of today November 7 2013 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available at our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section on our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's third quarter performance.
I would like to start off with significant highlights from the quarter and year-to-date periods.
First our sales do continue to increase.
On a constant currency basis third quarter 2013 sales increased 22% from the third quarter of 2012.
Third quarter 2013 sales per employee were $172 000 per person remaining at a 4-year high.
Our backlog as of September 30 2013 was $156 million slightly down from backlog at the end of the prior quarter but consistent with seasonal expectations regarding orders.
September year-to-date 2013 sales were $413.2 million.
Excluding foreign currency effects year-to-date sales increased $9.1 million or 2.2% versus the comparable prior-year period.
This sales growth is in line with global paper market trade group estimates.
Excluding foreign currency effects sales increased across all regions $4.2 million or 5.5% increase in Asia $2.8 million or 2.0% increase in Europe and $2.1 million or 1.1% increase in the Americas.
Constant currency sales growth was higher in rolls and mechanical services at $5.7 million or 4.1% increase than it was in machine clothing which grew $3.4 million or 1.3% increase.
Sales growth continues to be hampered somewhat by lack of production capacity in multiple product areas.
And the company is progressively working to eliminate those bottlenecks.
For the last 12 months our sales and orders are almost exactly balanced on a constant currency basis at $542.2 million.
Second big point is that our adjusted EBITDA continues to increase.
Third quarter 2013 adjusted EBITDA was $27.2 million or 20.2% of sales.
This is an increase of $2.8 million or 11.5% versus Q3 of 2012.
September 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA was $83.3 million.
This is an increase of $14.6 million or 21% over the comparable prior-year period.
Sales growth accounts for approximately 27% and net cost reduction accounts for 73% of the September 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA.
Our SG&amp;A continues to trend lower in both dollars and percentage and that improvement is primarily driven by cost reduction programs.
Our gross profit and gross margins continue to trend higher.
That improvement is also primarily driven by cost reduction programs.
The third major point is that additional cost reduction programs continue to be implemented at Xerium.
Compared to last year cost reduction programs delivered an incremental $7 million in the third quarter of 2013 and an incremental $18 million through September year-to-date of 2013.
This compares to $5.4 million in Q1 of 2013 and $5.6 million in Q2 of 2013.
Plant efficiency programs which include waste reduction procurement productivity and logistics programs account for approximately 40% of the year-to-date cost reduction improvements while restructuring programs account for 60% of the year-to-date cost reduction improvements.
Also in the third quarter of 2013 Xerium announced plans to build a new high-end press felt plant near Shanghai China.
This is anticipated to deliver both cost reduction and sales growth results.
And also in the third quarter of 2013 the company identified its restructuring goals targeted for implementation beginning in Q1 of 2014.
The company continues to reinvest the majority of its free cash flow to improve future results and there are several categories: First is the ordering of long lead time of equipment; second making restructuring and severance payments with regards to our restructuring programs; third finishing the 4 plant closures which are underway while at the same time expanding 7 plants and those are also underway; initiating the next plant closure; building a new greenfield plant in China; expanding the company's aftermarket rolls and service footprint and capabilities; implementing 10 new product programs that open new market opportunities for Xerium to grow sales in the future; and lowering our net debt to $394.4 million.
Xerium's net debt leverage continues to improve in line with adjusted EBITDA improvements declining to approximately 3.8x adjusted EBITDA.
Our Q3 2013 fully diluted earnings per share improved from a net loss of $0.24 per share -- per diluted share to net income of $0.13 per diluted share primarily as a result of increased gross margins and decreased operating expenses as a result of our cost reduction initiatives.
The third quarter of 2013 performance was as expected internally.
The business continues to be commercially steady and predictable with established trends.
Our adjusted EBITDA rates continue to increase due to explicit cost reduction actions being taken which are progressively being implemented.
We have identified numerous new opportunities to advance the company's sales and adjusted EBITDA and we have prioritized them to achieve proper balance.
The areas that we are balancing amongst include short-term results versus long-term results high-risk projects versus low-risk projects cost reduction versus sales growth new product development versus next-generation advancement of existing products and maintenance of current business and capabilities versus implementation of new business capabilities.
We have a large backlog at this point going into the fourth quarter of 2013 and into 2014.
At this point in time we see no substantial commercial changes to the business including any end-of-year timing events in the industry.
The company is committed to the continuous pursuit and implementation of measurable and sustainable advancement.
We intend to keep increasing our adjusted EBITDA for multiple years including 2014.
And we are finalizing the next slate of major actions right now.
We are already committed to a significant portion of our discretionary 2014 CapEx spend as we have advance-ordered multiple long lead time machines.
We are reinvesting the majority of our free cash flow but not all of it back into the business.
And we will continue to do that in 2014.
We will not need to do this indefinitely but at the company we feel we are catching up a little bit right now on top of normal maintenance needs.
We need to have a few less plants and high cost areas; a few more machines in certain plants to de-bottleneck normal sales volatility and sales growth opportunities; get more production in low cost areas; more removal of SG&amp;A redundancy; and reorganization of our human resources into a leaner forward-looking profile.
The new China clothing plant is a big deal for us and it positively impacts 2016 and beyond.
It will be a game-changer cost structure for the company as well as increasing our customer service response times specifically to Chinese customers.
The China market is the largest in the world and we need to get set up properly for the long term.
The China investment decision demonstrates our top-down commitment to making material changes in Xerium's business model.
2014 and 2015 improvements are based upon a different set of decisions and actions.
These improvements involve risk-taking and benefit from thoughtful planning.
We like our improvement plays it pays at Xerium and we're designing plans for meaningful adjusted EBITDA improvements for both 2014 and 2015.
Our cumulative goal is to progressively lay the foundation for higher performance.
Our historical and legacy customers are doing well but some are undergoing change.
They need Xerium to be an even stronger value partner than before and we feel that we are doing that.
Our R&amp;D function is focused and we are pursuing a sleight above next-generation and new products.
The collective goal of our 3 200 employees is to deliver incrementally higher value and achieve incrementally better results.
You should expect steady and solid advancement from us built upon explicit and measurable actions.
Now I will turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Harold.
Net sales in the third quarter were $135 million an increase of 0.6% compared to $134.2 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding favorable currency effects of $0.6 million the third quarter 2013 net sales increased 0.2% from the third quarter of 2012 with an increase of 2.2% in the roll cover segment partially offset by a decrease of 0.9% in the clothing segment.
Net sales for the 9 months ended September 30 2013 were $413.2 million an increase of 2% from $405 million in 2012.
Excluding unfavorable currency effects of $0.9 million net sales for the 9 months ended September 30 2013 increased 2.2% from 2012 with an increase of 1.3% to clothing segment and an increase of 4.1% in the rolls cover segment.
Gross profit increased $4.2 million or 8.6% and gross margin as a percentage of sales improved to 39.5% in the third quarter of 2013 from 36.6% in the third quarter of 2012.
These improved results were largely as a result of reduced operating cost due to restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by unfavorable regional and product sales mix.
For the 9 months ended September 30 2013 gross profit increased by 9.5% and gross margin as a percentage of sales increased to 38.9% from 36.2% for the 9 months ended September 30 2012.
These increases were primarily driven by incremental savings from cost reduction programs and operational efficiency and favorable factory overhead absorption partially offset by unfavorable regional and product sales mix.
Selling general and administrative expenses and research and development costs decreased 5.4% to $34.9 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $36.9 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This favorable variance is primarily due to savings achieved from our restructuring and cost reduction activities and the absence of CEO transition costs in 2013.
These decreases were partially offset by an increase of management incentive expense in 2013 increased professional fees and startup costs incurred in 2013 related to the China project.
Restructuring costs decreased to $3 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $5.8 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The 2013 charge is related to previously announced headcount reductions and the closure of a clothing facility in Spain.
Net interest expense decreased to $9.4 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $9.8 million in the third quarter of 2012.
The decrease was primarily related to lower average debt balances and lower amortization of deferred financing fees during the third quarter of 2013.
Interest expense less amortization of deferred financing costs was $8.7 million in the third quarter of '13 and $8.8 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Income tax expense increased to $3.1 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $0.1 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding the effects of restructuring our effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2013 was 37%.
This overall effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we received no tax benefit.
Our effective tax rate for the entire year is expected to be 88% or 31% excluding the effects of restructuring and debt refinancing.
The volatility in our effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions such as the United States where we received no tax benefit.
We expect cash taxes to be approximately $6 million for the full year.
Net income and diluted earnings per share increased to net income of $2.1 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013 from a net loss of $3.7 million or $0.24 per diluted share in third quarter of 2012.
Included in the per diluted share amounts was $0.19 and $0.38 of restructuring costs respectively in 2013 and 2012.
The increase was primarily a result of the impact of restructuring savings and operational efficiencies and the absence of CEO transition costs partially offset by increased management incentive cost in 2013.
Q3 2013 adjusted EBITDA was $27.2 million up 11.5% versus prior year; and 2013 year-to-date adjusted EBITDA was $83.3 million up 21.3% over prior year and ahead of internal plan.
Trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was increased to $103.9 million over the same period last year.
Trade working capital increased to $145.8 million at September 30 2013 from $131.1 million at December 31 2012.
This increase was primarily the result of increased sales volume impact on accounts receivable a temporary lag in accounts receivable days outstanding and an increase in inventory levels due to an anticipated increase in production levels.
Capital expenditures for the year-to-date period ended September 30 totaled $15.6 million.
We are currently targeting capital expenditures for 2013 to exceed our earlier estimate of $33 million by $5 million to $10 million due to the acceleration of certain capital projects.
Net cash from operating activities totaled $30.4 million in the 9 months ended September 30 2013.
Included in this result were restructuring payments of $12.9 million.
At quarter end we had $48.8 million of cash on hand and $27.4 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit and other facilities.
Harold? Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready for questions.
Emily may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Richard Kus for Jefferies.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Now a question for you.
One of your large competitors was talking a little bit about volume potentially coming in here in the fourth quarter.
And I know you guys said that you don't see any significant change here in the commercial environment.
Can you give a little bit of color around that what your expectations are for inventories and what you kind of see from your customers as you look out over the course of the next 3 4 months? Sure.
I guess if you look back at the prior 8 years for us Richard and look at our sales per quarter we're kind of dead-flat.
We don't have any seasonality quarter-to-quarter so Q4 is going to kind of look like Q3.
We have steady-state positions on machines.
And we have solid orders.
And as I've mentioned our orders and sales were matched almost exactly over the prior 12-year period.
And our orders were as expected in the quarter Q3 with regards to shipments in Q4.
So we're pretty steady on that front.
We expect Q4 to be like Q3.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then with regards to the CapEx plans you had mentioned that you're going to accelerate and it sounds like another $5 million to $10 million into this year compared to next year.
Is this largely related to the expansion over in China or is this equipment that's going to go into some of these other facility expansions you have going on? And does this mean your CapEx in 2014 might see -- might be a little bit lower than otherwise thought? Okay.
On my first point on the driver of the increase right now yes it is due to the China project primarily.
And that is the vast majority of that.
We've advanced ordered now all the big-ticket items and they're underway.
So we anticipate those payments will be made this year.
They haven't been made yet but we anticipate making them between now and year end.
We're finalizing the terms and contracts and whatnot with the equipment suppliers.
With regard to next year no we don't see a decrease next year.
If you look at the multiyear plan we have an increased EBITDA and restructure the company.
We're really still at the beginning of that.
So we have several more years of this type of level of spending.
We'll have free cash flow next year though.
We do have a plan to pay down debt 8 figures kind of deal.
But we do see a real payback on investing into the company right now.
And we have a really good slate of items.
The restructuring process is not complete.
We just have kind of done the first phase of it.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
It's certainly a refreshing change from where we were maybe 12 months ago.
I'd say lastly can you give us an idea or provide us with a way to think about the contribution that the China greenfield could have on EBITDA? And maybe talk a little bit about the total expected cost of that facility? Yes the cost position of the plant will definitely be our lowest cost similar to some of our peers who have already done that or almost all of our peers.
And if you look at the market it's growing at about 7%.
And if you look at our sales it's a press felt plant is what we're building right now.
And if you look at our press felt capacity and our press felt sales and the trade sales in that region and the growth rates we're still going to be a net exporter into that region for quite a while first for 4 years.
So the long-term plan is outside of 3 years.
It's a 5- to 7-year plan before we can start exporting out of that location and back in other regions.
So our business model right now and our 5-year plan is to implement press felt capacity in China to serve China and the surrounding region.
And that is going to take a while to do.
The rates that we have and the assumptions we've made are very consistent on pricing and we've just done the basic adjustments for input costs.
It will be a profitable area for us as it is in other areas.
Cliff do you have any color on specific numbers? Yes gross margin is lower in China because we're importing our product internally so there are increased freight costs and other variable costs from our cost plan.
We do expect that we'll get about a 4-point improvement on gross margins going forward once the plant is in place.
And that will help us again add to EBITDA improvement in the future once the plant is up.
And with regards to the capital the total capital that we're going to put into there we haven't finalized our plans Richard but the current plans are $30 million to $40 million.
We're primarily buying new equipment and we don't have extra equipment of this type that's proper.
We have to get the proper width machines for the size of the paper machines that are in that region.
We export to that region right now.
These products the only products that we make in the country of China right now are our rolls.
Our rolls and servicer are made in-country.
We export all of our clothing products in there.
So we had to get wide equipment some of the newest machines in the world are in China and in Asia and we just didn't have extra equipment like that.
So kind of a -- it's kind of a swallow big gulp.
And it's $30 million to $40 million is what it's looking like Phase 1.
Fixed Income Research</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And then actually one more if you don't mind.
You guys have done a great job with your cost reduction programs and you mentioned it sounds like at least in your prepared remarks about some additional actions that you may have.
Are these incremental to what you've talked about and have disclosed so far? And if so by high much? They are incremental.
So our -- the pace that we have right now we're kind of -- we're maintaining our quality levels.
We don't want to go too far too fast with how much restructuring we do.
But we do have several more plants that need to be consolidated.
We see a lot of opportunities to optimize our cost structure.
We also have next-generation equipment that we know we can invest in to be more efficient and have less waste.
We're pretty excited about that.
If -- our goals right now are really not exactly based on 2014 or 2015.
We can see that -- we have multiyear projects underway with but if you look at just 2014 we're for sure going to have around 5% to 10% improvement in EBITDA.
We haven't finalized our 2014 plans.
We're looking at that type of a range of increase.
Each year we can see it just based on cost reduction.
The market is pretty steady.
The commercial picture is pretty steady.
And if you look at us empirically looking backwards at our quarters over the prior 8 years we're a pretty steady quarter-on-quarter kind of a business as we should be.
And we are progressively implementing additional items to the baseline.
So the way we think about it is when we've completed a project we're taking on another one.
So we don't want to increase SG&amp;A or headcount to do more projects more quickly.
We're using the team we have and we're trying to be cash flow neutral.
But we're not trying to spend -- get way over our skis with spending.
We'll have some timing of big payments but over the periods we're trying to be cash flow neutral or slightly positive to pay down debt also.
So we see a 5% to 10% improvement next year and the year after.
We haven't finalized 2014 so I can't -- I'm not really comfortable giving anything more specific and I'm not withholding information it's just we're not done yet.
You should see -- you should expect to see increasing EBITDA from us a similar commercial picture and some debt paydown.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer for CRT.
I guess after that last call I don't have much else to ask.
But one thing I did want to get a comment on was your main competitor in the PMC business already actually had kind of a rough quarter over in China they mentioned.
And you guys did not.
You had a much better quarter.
Is there anything that you see that they're doing that you're not doing that might account for that? Well we saw the same -- we read their prepared comments.
We read their statements and their Q&amp;A and we're very consistent with them.
We see very similar activities in that region versus them.
They have a much larger exposure to that they have a big big business that was well-earned over a long period of time.
We're smaller in Asia Pacific than they are and we have a smaller product line.
Plus we are -- we have 2 big product lines we sell.
We sell rolls and PMC.
And our focus has been strongly on rolls and servicing.
And we are a market leader there.
And we compete against Boise and Metso in those arenas.
And we do suction box repairs and we got -- re-grind rolls and re-cover rolls and refurbish shafts and journals and bearings.
So our aftermarket service business has been growing faster than clothing.
And our clothing business also had a bump in the road there too.
We see the same things.
I think it's just based on our product mix and the size of our business on a relative basis.
I think they're consistent Adam.
Okay.
Okay.
What about Europe? Are you starting to see any pickup in Europe at all? Well as you can see in Europe we did fine in Europe also.
And again the biggest part of our Europe increase is rolls and service.
And the industry has continued to adjust to the decline in printing and writing grades.
And that trend downward is well established now.
It's going 15-years-plus now of a trend.
And as the paper and board makers in Europe have adjusted to that reality they've outsourced more and more and cut their payrolls for high-end services technicians and mill writes and they've progressively outsourced.
So our growth is partially a shift from doing things in-house to sourcing them.
And so the opportunity -- the number or rolls in Europe for instance is going down with the trend down in printing and writing.
But our business is increasing because they're outsourcing their services to third-parties like us like Boise like Metso.
And so we're benefiting from a secular shift in the provision of those services.
And that's going to continue for a while.
That's a trend that's not at the end.
That's kind of -- we made -- Dave Pretty is here with me the President of Europe.
We're kind of in the middle of that Dave in Europe? That's correct yes.
Any color Dave related to that comment? Well I -- definitely in support of what Harold said we are seeing a shift.
We are seeing a shift our client base outsourcing service work.
We're addressing that with our operations that are strategically located across the Europe -- European field of operation.
But our clothing business too we've been successful in terms of recent contract negotiations.
And our backlog is okay.
And if you just look at the number of datum year-to-date through September in Europe on a constant currency basis we're up 2%.
Got it.
And so I'm sorry the only other thing I wanted to ask about was you had spoken about new product initiatives in the past.
Is there anything that you're involved in there? Or maybe you could update us on the new product initiatives? Well we have 10 product -- we have 10 programs not 20 not 11 not 8.
We do have 10.
And they're very specific.
And there are areas where we have gaps in our product line.
There are trends that are underway in the market.
We've been maybe a little late to the party on these items and we're playing a little bit of catch-up just to fill in our product gap so that as the markets get tougher and tougher that we don't have any gaps at all in our product.
And we'd like to be able to look at a paper machine and have the full product line like our peers but we don't at this point.
So we're simply just filling in gaps.
Your next question comes from the line of John Koerber for Bennett.
I want to ask one follow-up question about the China spend.
I think you put a ballpark of $30 million to $40 million on it.
Is that through 2016; i.e.
an incremental $10 million a year will it lump in 2013 and 2014? John this is Cliff.
The spending on China will actually fall over 2013 '14 and '15.
So it'll be fairly well balanced.
Bulk -- the biggest part will come in '14.
But there's -- it's fairly well laid out to match our capital inflows of cash.
The timing of the building is to be built by the end of next year.
And we're going to be receiving the majority of the machines at the end of next year installing them at the beginning of 2015 and then going through an initial ramp-up to maintain our quality.
We're mimicking the quality of our Gloggnitz plant which is a world-class operation.
We have a very deliberate and specific training program on quality documented quality process that we're putting in.
We're not going to rush it.
But it'd be kind of starting in the beginning of 2015 is the way the equipment lead times and the building construction lead times kind of lay out.
Okay.
My second question is you mentioned bottlenecks in production and that has something to do with expanding in 7 plants and closing in 4.
Is that something that you feel will -- incrementally the progress you make in 2014 will that add $10 million of sales $15 million of sales? What do you feel you are losing that you can catch in 2014 all right? If that's possible to answer.
Yes the -- I can tell you the general area is rolls and service.
So one of the big things that we can't do is -- we have 17 plants focused on reservicing rolls and suction boxes.
And we need a big floor footprint to basically take a roll out of a suction box.
And we can't accommodate that either the weight of the item which can get up to 150 tons or the space needed to literally pull them apart.
And we are progressively receiving requests from our customers to do that.
The generic term as people say they want their suction boxes clean or refurbished.
And that entails a lot of mechanical work.
And it has to be done to precise specifications to avoid vibration problems or vacuum problems in the nip.
There's very specific parameters of this piece of equipment these work at and it needs to be matched to the roll and the fabric.
And all 3 of those items are what we do in our solution offering what we call the value results program where we engineer the nip and we recommend the settings for pressures temperatures vacuums vibrations.
And we can fine-tune a suction box the roll and the clothing.
And we're just not able to do that everywhere.
And so we have quite a few smallish expansions that we're underway with to accommodate that.
How much does it amount to? We haven't quantified that exactly.
We're going through our commitments now for 2014.
We know that we're capacity limited.
We're on 24/7 shifts in the plants that can do this and we're expanding.
So I'll ballpark it for you though.
It's probably -- Dave help me.
It's probably a $10 million item maybe $15 million? I would say somewhere between $15 million.
Yes okay.
Kind of a range.
That's very helpful.
I -- Adam previous questioner asked about product lines.
And I know you at one point spoke about really other markets.
What progress have you made in taking your product lines that exist to other industries that could probably use them? Yes we have -- we've done quite a bit.
First of all I hired a leader of that business Steven Johnson which was announced in the quarter.
He has started now.
He's the General Manager of what we're calling specialty products which are basically non-paper product sales.
We have been in these alternate markets for many decades.
They haven't been focal points and then they've been smaller and second priority somewhat at times when we've been sold out versus surges in the paper industry.
Our different mindset there and the new reality -- and that might have been proper then too but the new reality in the paper industry coupled with these areas growing on average around 5% versus the global paper market growing 2% make them more attractive now more than ever.
So we don't have a lot of dedicated capacity.
We've been accomplishing our production over time primarily with swinging looms and sharing finishing frames.
It's been a shared activity for us and now we're having a focused factory approach where we're dedicating equipment and tweaking it out to really be state-of-the-art with the quality of the products and to have a more full product line.
We'll probably -- we've already added this year some product specialists globally in Asia in Europe in the U.S.
so we need a few product specialists to help with applications.
The application of the product to the machine is extremely important always but especially in these areas.
And so we needed to beef up our ability to quote properly.
And we have hired the specialists.
We do have a leader.
Cliff and his team have created a P&amp;L.
We're managing a P&amp;L starting in 2014.
Versus it being a product line within the regions it's actually going to be a virtual P&amp;L across the regions where we're going to track it explicitly set goals.
So we're clarifying it.
We're focusing it.
We're adding some dedicated talent to it.
We're adding dedicated machinery to it.
And so that is part of the de-bottlenecking that we spoke about.
It's not a big investment though.
It's not like the China project which that one is a big deal.
It's really a loom here or there.
It's an attachment or an amendment here or there.
And so it's primarily using equipment that we have.
All right.
My final question if you can step back for a moment I believe you've probably been -- you were appointed to the job probably about 15 months ago.
In the course of that timeframe what's been your biggest surprise about the attributes of the company? And what do you feel your focus is now that is different from what you thought your focus would be? Or has there been really no change in focus? I'm just saying what have you learned in the last 12 months or so that you feel should have greater emphasis? Okay.
Three questions there.
The biggest surprise I didn't really have any big surprises per se.
I was in packaging for many years.
And paper and packaging were covered externally by third-party analysts and investors and I tracked this industry.
I knew of it.
I knew of Xerium.
I knew of Albany.
I was able to research this company very well before taking this job.
And I knew before I got here that we were -- had outstanding products 200 years of credibility and a leader in patents and technology.
So I knew that coming in and I have found that to be true.
So I have found the product strengths and quality and customer relationships to be unbeatable.
We're matchable we're comparable in certain areas but we're pretty -- we're a leader at what we do we're specialists at what we do.
I would say that the restructuring program that we've put in place to cut costs cut headcount cut down on flexibility in the plants cut down on the number of plants is something that I'm happy with how well the operations team has accommodated that.
And so I would say our operations team has overperformed for the reasons we're beating our numbers is because they are beating their numbers.
The market isn't growing faster than we thought.
We thought it would grow at 2% we're growing at 2%.
So no big surprises commercially.
We're holding our own.
We're doing what we need to do.
We're following momentum on the rolls side strongly and we're following momentum into Asia.
But I would say definitely our operations team is really strong.
And as far as focus now and then from what I've learned I'm basically going to ride them now.
I'm going to ride that horse.
So we're going to keep going with our restructuring and adding our Six Sigma programs our lean manufacturing programs our waste reduction programs our yarn substitution programs our plants making basis for each other helping each other more.
Our plants can handle more interconnectivity than they have in the past and we're doing that.
So right now we're going to ride those strengths going forward and then I've tried to articulate them numerically a little bit here.
So I would say that we're definitely a clear leader of what we're doing and we're trying to be very transparent with what we're doing in Asia and in these product categories.
So we're not withholding the information at all.
[Operator Instructions] Emily hearing no further questions.
I'd just like to summarize the call for today.
And I want to thank everyone for calling in and your interest in Xerium and we're trying very hard to be transparent and to set goals that we can meet or beat.
And we're going to continue with that mindset and have credibility in terms of saying what we're going to do and then do what we say at least.
So we're thankful for you calling in and look forward to talking with you on our next public all.
With that Emily we'd like to end the call please.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for joining today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Xerium Technologies’ Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Financial Results Conference Call on March 5 2014.
I will now hand the conference over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies’ fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter and full year results.
Subsequently we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies’ financial results for the quarter and year-to-date periods were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after the market close on Tuesday March 4 2013.
And we are also announcing a press release issued after the filing of the 10-K.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.xerium.com.
I also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2014.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Tuesday’s press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our review as of today March 5 2014 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section on our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thanks Kevin.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review our fourth quarter and year-to-date results.
I’d like to start off with pointing out a few significant highlights.
First of all our Q4 adjusted EBITDA increased almost 17% on steady sales and strong cost reduction.
Our constant currency sales were slightly above Q4 of 2012.
Our roll sales improved 6.4% primarily due to strength in North America while machine clothing sales declined 3.2% primarily due to market decline in Europe.
Our Q4 adjusted EBITDA was $24.1 million and this is an increase of $3.5 million or about 17% versus Q4 of 2012.
And it’s primarily driven by a steady market and strong cost reduction activities.
Cost reduction added $4.7 million in the quarter for adjusted EBITDA.
Q4 orders were strong for machine clothing and the company has a large backlog going into the Q1 2014.
And that backlog has increased also during this quarter which we will get to a little later.
It’s customary in the industry to receive blanket orders for specific machine positions at year and that happened to us.
And while orders are a good leading indicator of sales actual production hours for our customers will be the driver of sales.
And we are going to give you an update on current events regarding production machine hours also.
The macro environment was slightly weaker than expected at the end of 2013 with weakness in North America containerboard market specifically which is the largest market segment in the global market.
In that specific area producer inventories rose in Q3 and the industry the company’s customers was disciplined to idle machine output and to balance demand and inventory or what’s referred to in the industry as market curtailment.
This correction is still holding in Q1 with certain swing capacity still idle and some expected to short – to start up shortly.
This is an indication that GDP based activity industrial production was weaker than expected.
Of course many of you are investors and inspectors in other companies and know that and so this is a consistent comment and it’s consistent with information at least from buyer industry also and our major customers as many as who are public.
And in addition to that the severe weather in North America in Q1 has exacerbated the issue from the timing standpoint.
The company increased its inventory positions in 2013 as it embarked upon the global raw material substitution project that resulted from 2013 global bid-out of procured raw materials.
Savings are expected to result in 2014 with a carryover into 2015 and the inventories will be brought back in line this year in 2014.
Another key highlight is with regards to full year adjusted EBITDA which grew 20% driven again by steady sales and strong cost reduction which is our game plan.
2013 sales were $547 million an increase of $9.2 million or about 1.7% versus 2012 on a constant currency basis.
The sales growth resulted primarily from the reduction of rolls backlog in North America and Europe and a small amount of global market growth.
We believe that the global market grew between zero to 1% in 2013 and we were consistent with this.
Full year 2013 adjusted EBITDA was $107 million and this is an increase of a little over $18 million or 20% as I mentioned.
And steady sales continue a little bit of ebb and flow to the business here due to timing.
But we have steady sales and orders and backlog and we have strong cost reduction supplementing that as we go along 2014 is going to be more of the same which I will give you some highlights on but it’s a continuum for us in 2014 so you are going to expect similar performance.
Cost savings were partially offset by a reinstatement of incentive comp in 2013 and that will carry forward into ’14.
Full year 2013 roll sales outperformed machine clothing sales with an increase of almost $9 million or 5% excluding currency.
Machine clothing sales for the company were flat year-to-year.
A bright spot in the company’s sales profile continues to be mechanical services.
Our full year sales grew almost 14% in 2013 and we have mentioned this for customers are seeking increasing level of product offerings and services from us as the industry continued to outsource and as they continued to desire stronger and more sophisticated offerings to achieve further cost reductions.
This is consistent with the growth of the company’s Smart Roll program and Rezolve products which are our highest value add products and are strongly performing.
Both of these products emphasize machine automation and are high level of value adds for our customers.
The company is aggressively expanding it’s capabilities in this area.
I wanted to highlight a couple of them.
One is the expansion of our service facilities in our plants in Ruston Louisiana.
We are just currently underway if you vary.
It’s a centerpiece facility for us from the services standpoint it’s in the center of the Southeast U.S.
market which is globally competitive and we are expanding our ability to delay on services there.
We also implemented a Smart Roll production center in China.
This year we introduced the next generation Smart Roll product which allowed the company to service suction roll covers which is important tissue producers.
We introduced our next generation of Rezolve program which provides papermakers a more sophisticated unique tool to improve their machine efficiency and operating cost while giving an integrated view of the operation of their clothing and rolls together.
We also equipped our North American sales engineers with Xerium’s engineering tools just to do onsite service checks on paper machines.
We hired machine experts in Asia China specifically to provide sophisticated machine service and we installed our equipments in France after it was refurbished into our plants in China to continue the growth that’s underway in that country and to provide more and more sophisticated more products that covers themselves the drill patterns and grooving to achieve specific outlet for position on the machine.
Asian market growth and Asian sales continue to be a bright spot for us.
Our full year Asian sales grew almost 4% constant currency.
The yen did depreciate so our reported numbers are slightly different but our unit volume was up.
And we believe that’s in line with market growth.
We believe that we are one of the market share leaders for tissue products in Asia if not the leader and in China specifically.
The company is implementing a new plant in Bacheng China which we have released press release on that and we will find it on footnotes as well in terms of our obligations to invest there and build the facility out and that is underway.
The construction is underway right now and will hit run rate output towards the end of 2015 and begins production sooner than that.
It will be a material advancement in our adjusted EBITDA.
Our 2013 orders were $550 million which were up about 7% versus 2012.
In the machine clothing we are seeing increased orders in the Americas and in Asia offset by a decrease in Europe.
Rolls and mechanical services as I mentioned are continuing at a steady pace.
And going forward into this year we don’t anticipate any change in the pattern for the backlog trends that we have had over the last two years.
Cost reductions drove the majority of our improvement.
We do a bridge on our year-to-year performance.
Cost reduction is a big deal and we are having similar effort and plan for this year.
Our efforts in 2013 delivered $23.5 million and as I mentioned $4.7 million in the quarter.
In 2014 we intend to do the same kind of program again and we are articulating a $20 million number.
We have an internal number higher than that.
And we see further cost savings in the out years.
We haven’t fully planned ‘14 ‘15 or ‘16 but we have a continuum of cost reduction ideas underway.
Gross profit margins trended higher in ‘13 versus ‘12.
You can see that our fourth quarter numbers were seasonally down as they were in the prior year but we have a plan to increase our gross profit margins again in ‘14 versus ‘13 by 4 points as we continue our cost reduction activities.
Our plant efficiency programs are really important consistent waste reduction helping us to be a more sustainable supplier in this industry procurement programs as we bid out our procured raw materials productivity and logistics programs that’s shipped direct to our customers in cost effective ways and those accounted for 40% of our cost reduction savings while restructuring programs were about 60%.
We are in the finishing phases has a few closures that we started last year.
We started one already which we announced previously and we have another that’s sort of the start.
And we are going to continue this program until we have eliminated the redundant cost in our plant network Turning to the future or beyond the period here according to RISI which is one of the leading trade mats out there and there are others approximately 70% of the industry’s growth will be in Asia over the next five years.
So Asia is important for everybody including us.
And Xerium has multiple initiatives underway to grow in Asia.
We are a leader in Asia now.
We are competitive now.
And we continue to invest and maintain that position.
We are expanding output at all of our Asian plants all four of them were undergoing an expansion and capability enhancements and were (indiscernible) in the fifth plant in Shanghai and we are adding sophisticated talent to our human resources.
And this is the largest trade market in the world to machines in the U.S.
and the world and very sophisticated demand from all suppliers including us.
If you look at the grade of the paper printing writing and newsprint continue to decline due to digital substitution.
We all know that but GDP grades of paper are increasing in all regions.
And these are packaging grades these are what we are called brown paper grades linerboards kraftliner testliner corrugated mediums shipping type of products and consumer packaging kind of products.
So these continue to grow in line with GDP and we are seeing that.
And we have multiple new product and new capacity initiatives underway which really participate in that growth.
Tissue and personal care products are specific segment that continue to grow globally and we have a strong product line there now and we are a leader there now but there are demands to be better and we are continuing those advancements.
Non-woven fabrics also were a high growth area.
There are estimates out there between 7% and 8% growth globally.
And we have strong product lineup now and we are expanding our efforts as we have mentioned previously.
We formed a new division in 2013 to specifically grow non-paper business and non-woven is one of the big ones.
Another big one is fiber cement siding and backerboard which is tied to housing construction which is well followed in North America not followed in some other markets but it is a growth industry globally.
We have competitive product line for these machines and companies that make these products are growing in that area.
Geographically again just touching on the big picture Asia grew about 4% Americas 2% and Europe was flat.
And so we see a similar pattern here you have heard it for months in others so not a big change in the forward outlook.
Q1 2014 market condition has started off soft.
They are getting stronger.
North American containerboard correction on rebalancing that happened and this is one of the largest segments in the world and we are one of the largest providers in the world.
So we are going to be affected by industry phenomenon like that.
In North America 75% of the markets controlled by a few producers they are all customers and they are public and they have all announced their plans.
So we have very clear expectations from what they are doing with their machines and they are getting through that now.
On a broader picture if you look at the public commentary released by the top producers it appears that the industry dynamics are little changed.
Turning right into newsprint papers are declining globally especially in Europe.
Board and packaging is growing with GDP.
South American pulp market is growing.
Tissue is growing globally.
Asia is growing in all roll products.
Fiber cement is growing.
Non-woven fabric production is growing very strongly.
And mechanical services are growing.
(indiscernible) is due to desire by customers to outsource but also as machine utilization increases and the non-competitive machines are focusing more of the world’s production on higher end machines.
There is a need for higher end services from people like ourselves provided.
Our ability to secure growth in these markets is largely an internal matter because the growth opportunities are there and is dependent upon our product and service offerings our capacity positioning and human resources.
We are not a full product and service provider in all market segments.
Our market shares are irregular across regions and across product lines.
And one of the key things we are doing there strategically is to try and we have similar shares across the machines from the beginning to the end.
And we are expanding our dedicated output in certain areas to correct those efficiencies.
And specifically we have 11 new product programs underway here and a comprehensive service expansion globally.
These are complex multi-year efforts.
They are strategic efforts.
And our longer term plan is balanced between base market market share maintenance focused sales growth and continuous cost reduction.
So we do intend to grow faster than the market to drive initiatives and we do intend to grow our EBITDA faster than our sales growth due to our cost reduction activities.
We are making a lot of forward investments.
If you look at our CapEx spending in Q4 2013 we are going to have another year of that kind of spending.
We are doing a lot of long lead time ordering and lot of base facility spending.
We do see a continuation of that for the moderation that’s in the out years.
So 2013 was a year of steady trends for the markets that we serve.
And our board and paper are our largest markets of course and those markets grew slightly.
Our sales grew stronger than that.
A portion of it was one-time backlog catch-up but some of it also was due to our own internal initiatives.
We do expect that the backlog thing did not happen again we fixed our problems primarily in our roll plants that we backed up.
And geographically we think that our sales will be in line with reported paper and board production plus we will add our own initiatives.
The roll business grew 5% and we think it’s going to continue throughout roll along with mechanical services.
We have lower market share in Asia than in other geographies and we are doing everything we can to get part out there.
So we see a lot of opportunity.
If we talk about our top customers for a minute we do have 80:20 kind of top customer list that matter a lot here and those customers actually grew faster than the rest of our customer base.
We are very focused on them and they grew 2.5% actually in the year and appear to be in good health going into 2014.
They continue to see movement obviously away from grades of paper and they are doing machinery dedications and they are adding machines in the areas that are growing we are right in there with them.
And in addition Xerium took actions in 2013 and will do so in 2014 to address the growth opportunity that we see in non-paper as well.
It’s been an area of the company we haven’t focused on strongly but that we are now and we do need dedicated machinery dedicated product offerings and dedicated human resources and we have taken those actions.
So the base market is undergoing from a change but we are reorienting ourselves so that we can continue growing.
If you look back at 2013 it was a transition year for us.
You can almost say it’s a turnaround year for us given the decline we were on.
We feel we have regained credibility but now we are looking forward without add to what we have done.
We did grow 20% in EBITDA (Technical Difficulty) but it did in our plan this year.
So we have some spending that we have to do in China that won’t benefit us in this period.
This is going to be heavy spending year for that project as we would put the fielding in place and put the machinery in place and we have final payments on everything but we are not going to get a benefit till ‘15 or ‘16.
We do expect an inflation or negative price mix.
We will limit our cost out of activity.
So right now we are committing to increase between $87 million in ‘14.
We can adjust that later if things are going profitably but we would like to set your expectations around that from us.
And finally from a cash flow perspective the completion of our raw material substitution programs are underway and we do expect to free up cash flow this year of $6 to $8 million and have higher EBITDA.
So we will be paying down from debt this year.
And so as kind of a recap on where we are we fill it in the questions in a few minutes.
I’d like to turn it over to Cliff to add some more specific financial facts.
Thank you Harold.
On a constant currency basis Q4 2013 net sales increased slightly above Q4 2012 with an increase of 6.4% in the roll covers segment partially offset by a decrease of 3.2% in the machine clothing segment.
Gross margins in Q4 2013 improved to 36.7% from 35.1% in Q4 2012.
These improved results were largely due to reduced operating cost as a result of restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by unfavorable regional and product sales mix.
Our operating expenses decreased by $3.3 million or 8.6% to $35 million from operating expenses of $38.3 million in Q4 2012.
This decrease is primarily a result of our cost reduction activities partially offset by the reinstatement of the management incentive program in 2013.
Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31 2013 was 51.2% compared to 16.5% in 2012.
The effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit including losses related to restructuring and debt refinancing expenses.
The 2013 effective tax rate also includes $6.2 million of tax benefits related to the release of a valuation allowance against Canadian deferred tax assets.
Excluding the effects of the release of the valuation allowance against Canadian deferred tax assets restructuring and debt financing expenses our effective tax rate was 39% on the normalized basis.
2013 free cash flow declined to a negative $8 million as capital expenditures increased to $44.1 million and were partially offset by cash provided by operations of $36.1 million which included $22.3 million of cash restructuring payments.
Net debt leverage declined to 3.9 times at December 31 2013 from 4.6 times at December 31 2012 primarily as a result of the improvement in adjusted EBITDA.
In 2013 in order to support our ongoing restructuring activities we refinanced our bank term debt credit facility to a covenant-lite term loan credit facility which increased our capacity for capital expenditures and restructuring activities increased our borrowing capacity and decreased our interest rates.
In addition on March 3 2014 we amended our ABL Credit facility adding a Euro tranche and increasing our borrowing limit to $55 million from $40 million.
All other terms in the ABL remained essentially the same.
Trade working capital increased to $136.4 million at December 31 2013 from $131 million at December 31 2012.
This increase is primarily the result of increased sales volume on accounts receivable and a decrease in inventory turns from 2012 to 2013 related to the temporary effect of a global yarn substitution program.
Increased accounts payable as a result of increased capital expenditures included in accounts payable at year end partially offset the increase in accounts receivable and inventory.
We had a very successful year in restructuring our operations.
We are at the final stage of four plant closures and we expect that we will have a fifth plant closed in Q2 of 2014.
Total cash spent on restructuring in 2013 was $22.3 million and we expect to spend $24 million in 2014.
However restructuring expenditures are expected to decline to about $10 million in both 2015 and 2016 respectively.
Lastly in addition to our restructuring efforts we have partnered with Oracle and have upgraded our management reporting throughout the organization.
We have completed the first phase of this upgrade in January of 2014 and are excited about the dramatic improvement to our plant regional and segment reporting capabilities.
Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready for questions.
Operator may we please ask the first question? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Melissa Tan representing R.W.
Pressprich.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Melissa.
First question is if you can please just give little bit more color on your exposure to the containerboard market I mean you did mention it was quite weak in late 2013 and carry on into 2014.
So if we can understand little bit more of your exposure to that and also how is that comparing to your exposure to for example paper packaging newsprint and tissue? That will be great.
Thanks.
Okay.
I am going to call on Dave Pretty our President of North America to help answer that.
If you look at how we did in the quarter now how our current momentum in our business is we are doing fine in that grade in Asia South America and Europe.
This is really a North American phenomenon right now this is going through our adjustment.
And this market segment itself is very healthy but a lot of production came online at the end of the year over 1 million tons and then exceeded the need for extra production.
And so there was an overproduction situation.
We are (indiscernible) that’s a big segment for us.
So we are impacted by it.
And I’d like Dave to take over from here.
Dave? Thanks Harold.
In terms of the fourth quarter and then going into the first quarter certainly our product portfolio in that segment is very strong and was clearly noted during the earnings releases by Rock-Tenn and International Paper that they did take machine slowdown or our economic market shutdowns to the tune between those two companies alone of almost 400 000 metric tons.
Ultimately that’s starting to improve and the outlook for that segment looks more positive coming out of the first quarter going into the remainder of the year.
Certainly we will follow that trend.
Okay thank you.
And secondly you can talk a little bit about your progress at the new plant in China as how much money you have spent of that your projected $35 million to $40 million initial investments and how much more you plan to spend this year and will that be pretty much stage out evenly per quarter? Okay.
We have almost fully obligated ourselves to the full spend.
We have been investing a little more than $35 million on plant property equipment adding some additional dollars in there for working capital.
And the cash profile of that I am going to ask Cliff to help me so that I think Melissa you are also asking where are we on cash outlays and I’d like to answer that part.
Through the end of 2013 we spent about $7.5 million on the program about $7.5 million was for capital equipment long lead time equipment that we needed for deposits.
And this year will be a big year.
And 2014 will be a big year.
The primary amount of the remaining dollars that Harold mentioned will be spent in 2014.
We probably have about $7 million or so that will flump into ‘15.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And just lastly if you can talk a little bit more about just in terms of how much growth cost you can take out in 2014 and 2015 2016.
Since you mentioned last year basically incremental EBITDA close to $24 million because of that and just want to see what’s your potential over the coming years especially with the China plant coming online? Okay.
You are right.
In 2013 we did about $23.5 million thereabouts.
Our plan for ‘14 is higher than that.
We intend to take out more cost than that.
We don’t have a budget for ‘15 or ‘16.
We are going to get a carryover effect of the closures that we have underway and that are just starting.
And the Bacheng plant is mostly a growth story for us and is it going to substitute production per se from other sites we are going to continue to participate to market growth but to point backward it is going to blend our cost profile down but the way that we are looking at that project is just on net EBITDA contribution to the company.
It’s a little less than $10 million is what that is at full run rate.
If you look at but it’s not going to hit full run rate right away we kind of go from one shift to two shift to three shift to four shifts.
And so if you look at our run rate it will be – we will get a full year effect in 2017.
And that’s going to be the net EBITDA contribution of that but on top of that our cost reduction programs continues cost improvements in the plant to all – every single one of our plant to the cost reduction program to offset their own inflation plus ads.
We do have additional capital-based programs to reduce our cost further.
We have just a couple plant left that we are looking at for restructuring but I think right now you should expect our spending to come down in ‘15 and ‘16 as we have gotten on with the healthcare in both Bacheng and we all have for instance we are on the verge of announcing our sixth plant that we are closing.
We don’t have six more to close.
We have two ready.
So the cost reduction the cost restructuring spending is likely to come down.
And then of course the Bacheng plant the spending on that will be over this year.
So I think your – the cash flow for us are going to come down but our cost reduction plan and EBITDA improvement from the cost reductions that we are going to get plus the sales growth activities.
If you look at it on our spending this year excuse me ‘13 we have done a lot of spending to debottleneck sales growth fiber cement products non-woven products mechanical services in Europe and in North America.
We have put in our Smart Roll sales now we have them everywhere globally.
So we’ve expanded our ability to make pulp wire switch is a growing market.
So we also have done you could call it original investing that where we intend to get top-line performance versus cost reduction.
So we do have a business plan to growth action in the market and the markets that we’re in.
So it’s based on our own actions that require some new investments.
So our EBITDA growth expectations will continue to be strong but it will blend more to sales performance than closing plants.
We don’t have a 50 to 50 number I’m not reporting a number from you but it will be strong improvements.
Okay great.
Thank you so much for the color.
That’s all from me.
You’re welcome.
Thank you Melissa.
Your next question comes from the line of Katja Jancic representing Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just one quick question you mentioned you’re going to be paying down debt in 2014 could you provide more color on that how much of debt are you planning to repair? Yes.
In the release we mentioned that we would be generating $6 million to $8 million of cash flow in 2014 we expect to use that to pay-down debt.
Okay.
So the whole cash flow will be used for repayment of that $6 million to $8 million? Okay.
That’s all from me.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Craig Hoagland representing Anderson Hoagland and Company.
Please proceed.
Hi two questions.
The first is it was mentioned in the press release and in your prepared remarks of sales programs kicking in in the second half of 2014.
Could you just say a little bit more about what those are? Yes.
One of them is fiber cement products.
If you look at how we participated in that market historically we used swing looms and non-dedicated assets of swing loom is when you change the raw materials on the loom to make a product after you run out of the glass set-up.
It makes us not that competitor and it makes us have the long lead-times when the loom has swung make a different product.
So we dedicated assets now.
So that our ability to serve the market is not an impediment and we’ve ordered to dedicated special purpose loom that has the tension the machine set-ups to make that.
That’s a specific area for us.
We’re putting that extra production in Asia.
And we have strong expectations on that.
It’s a beautiful market for us.
We’re a leader in it and if you look at the fiber cement products lead-times are important those products only last about seven days on the machine we’re pouring concrete directly on to them and concrete cost up the whole process and then do an organized cleanout of seven days.
So very short life products and lead-times are important.
So we can’t be that competitive the way that we produce our products.
So we’re attacking that specifically.
So we have – that’s an example of de-bottlenecking.
So we have a set of these small activities to get after it.
Our corporate accounts are really important to us.
Our corporate accounts as I mentioned and they will have to be a full line supplier to them and we’re focused on that.
And as I mentioned that we have irregular ability to achieve that outcome for them based on the fact who may have dryers of forming fabrics or shoe press felts.
Other products we have – we have a couple of holes in our product line shoe press felts are one of them.
Our shoe press position is very specific.
We have the product line there its cost a firm for us.
We have the product line underway now.
We have initial orders underway now.
We know how to make that product.
We just had – haven’t been doing it.
And also brown paper initiatives in Europe is important as that market shifts from premium writing grade to brown paper grades.
It causes a product change for us and a need for us to change machinery over to making those products.
So we started that in ‘13.
We are finishing in ‘14.
And then as I mentioned the Ruston service expansion is really big for Southeast United States –southern part of the United States excuse me.
And we were limited with our ability to do suction box repair cylinder honing a lot of a complicated services that we perform that take a lot of floor space so we had to expand the building to put cranes and workstations so that we can accommodate more work.
It’s already taken off for us.
We have another plant in Griffin Georgia where we are looking to do the same thing if this continues.
On the Southeast United States we are very competitive in the global markets due to low cost energy access to fiber this is ours in clinical water.
So that part of the industry is very good.
We have taken a lot of actions to reduce lead times for certain products.
If you look at all urethane roll covers for Asia we have been servicing that market historically by exporting rolls from Europe and Asia when needed.
That’s not very competitive.
And this year we installed a polyurethane unit into our rolls plant in China a dramatic improvement in lead times and cost to make us more important and we already have started production and produced our first order.
So we have had a lot of those type of activities to debottleneck historical problems that we worked around and took a clean look at what possible if we had the ability to produce differently.
So we have a list of about 20.
So I would say that we don’t have one like one big thing that we are trying to do and if it works Xerium is going to be great.
And if it doesn’t we are going to not be great.
We are doing a series of them across regions and across products because for sure a couple I am not going to work out right.
So we place multiple bets here along the way to grow and outperform the industry growth.
Yes.
So if your backlog adjusted growth last year was half of 1% do all these programs add up to a meaningful lift in that growth rate? Yes.
We are trying to double or triple that this year.
Our internal plans are way more than that.
So that would be – a triple will be 1.5% growth? Right.
So we are trying – we are aiming between 1% and 1.5% exactly.
Okay okay.
My other question was around the interaction of the expected cost saves in gross margin improvement and the inflation mix issues which are it sounds like holding back EBITDA growth a little bit.
Can you just explain how you can have 20 plus million of cost saves in an expanded gross margin and mix and inflation hold back EBITDA growth? Yes.
We have price mix as an important one because that the highest priced products that we make in the industry mix are printing and writing forming fabrics.
If you look at price per kg if you look at the downtrend in that product and the increase in brown paper grades the brown paper grades have been less priced.
And that shows up as the price mix item for us.
We still own the machines.
We are still making money but we are getting less price per kilogram less price per machine now.
On the – we expect that to continue.
So we have a trend that we have seen as that happens it’s not a surprise to us it’s a trend.
And we have trended that right in ‘14 and continuation of that.
If you look at our inflation it’s primarily statutory wage and benefit increases in Europe and in South America where our business are but if you look at our business profile it’s Europe.
We have a lot of Europeans on the payroll here and they get statutory increases.
Lot of the increases that we have in North America are statutory in that their union maybe not work for us – work forces and we have obligated ourselves to certain increases in wages and benefits.
So most of our costs are in our labor pool and have to do with wages and benefits and then it adds up to be again about $6 million number per year.
So as I mentioned earlier our plants have offsetting cost reduction plans to deal with our own inflation.
Okay.
So we have higher margins but lower average selling prices effectively? That’s right.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
With no further questions at this time I would now like to hand the call back to Mr.
Harold Bevis for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for calling in.
We appreciate your support of our company and in fact the questions that you asked.
And with that we will end the call for today.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
And ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2014 Xerium Technologies’ Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please proceed.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies’ first quarter 2014 financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter results.
Subsequently we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies’ financial results for the quarter were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after the market close on Tuesday May 8 2014.
And we are also announcing a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I would also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2014.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Thursday’s press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today May 9 2014 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release which is posted in the Investor Relations section on our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review our first quarter results and talk about the full year as well.
I’d like to start off with several significant highlights.
Our first quarter roll sales were weaker than expected in North America and Europe and weather conditions had a market inventory correction and containerboard grow weaker than expected roll sales in the quarter for North America and Europe.
We expected and planned for sales to be weak.
We have a good amount of visibility.
I mean where we believe these market conditions were temporary and appears that they were.
And our orders grew in this – in the quarter 5.8% and grew sequentially.
Roll sales were in line with the rest of the world outside of North America and Europe.
On a segment basis our constant currency machine clothing sales declined year-over-year about 1% while our adjusted EBITDA in that segment grew about $1 million.
If you look at our sales growth in cost reduction programs that we have underway they are on track and deliver our expected results.
Per our plan they are somewhat back end loaded due to the timing of our capital equipment coming in and we are underway with a balanced program for sales growth and cost reduction.
Our cost reduction programs are comprised of the plant repositioning program and operational excellence programs.
The plant repositioning program will dramatically reposition our assets to be in the right places to mirror our full growth opportunities geographically and by product type and at the same time increase our competitiveness as we are taking cost as we do this repositioning effort.
The plant repositioning program includes six plant closures five of which are underway right now none of which have been completed.
11 plant expansions and all 11 are underway and two new Greenfield plants both of which are underway.
The operational excellence programs involve all 28 Xerium plants globally.
And each plant has a site specific program to address the following initiatives waste reduction netting out procured items implementing throughput best practices installing the lower cost logistics network implementing a new safety program and capital projects to lower our costs.
These programs have been centrally organized in order to spread best practices uniformally across all regions.
And implemented in parallel with these foundation molds is an equally size set of sales growth programs.
The programs are comprised of new people industry specialists with additive knowledge to our current legacy team and new R&amp;D program new R&amp;D tools and new machines with capabilities the company has never had couple with a new product program that’s primarily centered around 11 specific programs.
In the first wave of new products coming out from these new programs are pretty exciting.
And the first one is EnerVent which is a brand new highly engineered and machined roll cover that’s optimized for tissue machines.
The second is our continuation of our extremely successfully Smart Roll program called Smart 6.0.
And it is the industry’s first load sensing roll cover for suction box applications.
If you are not close to papermaking this is an extremely big and important breakthrough in the industry and it is the first.
The third is our Shoe press belt and the company has received its first order for a very innovative approach to this application which has not been served by our company for several years.
And the last is a very important product for the tissue industry and it’s our company’s first ever through air drying fabric for high-end tissue machine applications.
The company is shifting with the market.
We have a smaller market in the global printing and writing segment.
And that is now about 23% of the global pulp and paper market.
And we a larger position in the growing markets for tissue packaging papers boxboard fiber cement non-woven belts rolls for flexible packaging and rolls for film production.
We continue to advance our position and increase our market share globally in these non-paper markets such as fiber cement and non-wovens with a dedicated team allocated resources and advanced product offerings.
For instance fiber cement demand in North America is growing 8.5% annually through 2017 driven by the gradual recovery in residential construction.
Global growth also is benefiting from a shift from asbestos-based production to fiber cement based building materials.
On the non-wovens side global demand continues to be forecasted to rise at least 5.4% annually and demand in developing countries is even more robust and at higher 7.2% annually.
Xerium is small in both of these segments looking backwards but looking forward there is certainly areas where we intend to grow in a deliberate manner.
If you turn the attention to EBITDA we are basically reconfirming our commitment to prior guidance that we gave to achieve full year adjusted EBITDA in the range of $116 million to $120 million.
And we are on track for that.
So why would we have a range? The range really is dependent upon macroeconomic factors.
All of our cost programs are on track.
The only variable we have really is a macroeconomic environment which has got the lot of play in market research.
So with the stable demand we are going to be on the $120 million side of this if we have fourth quarter softness which has happened in the last two years have been closer to the $116 million kind of the number.
But we are reducing our costs at the same time that we repositioned our commercial programs and capacities to mirror our growth opportunities geographically and by product.
These plans are on track and they back end loaded and they have to get there.
Why are they back-end loaded? It is dependent upon the lead times we have from machinery in order to enable these moves.
We see the same amount of upside and downside to that range.
We can see conditions where we can beat $120 million and we see conditions where we could be slightly less.
So we think it’s a balance set of range of expectations for you.
And as a management team we are committed to deliver it.
And furthermore if you look at the cash flows associated with what we are doing here to fix the company we will be cash generative in the second half of this year and we expect to pay down debt.
And our growth story remains the same is unchanged in this conference call we intend to grow in Asia and in fact we are growing in Asia and we intend to grow in the Americas and in Europe primarily in the non-paper areas and in the rolls and mechanical services areas.
We are putting in place the machine capabilities and people to grow in those new product areas.
And already mechanical services are about 10% of our sales and growing.
It’s a very value added service biased and very specific.
We have a range of services we offer and they are desired.
Our sales of non-paper products are already over $100 million of our sales profile.
And we are investing heavily to increase that proportion and we are investing to deepen and expand the value we bring to the paper market.
The declining printing &amp; writing segment gets a lot of attention and has a tendency to both be exaggerated and extrapolated to the rest of the market.
But that’s actually in air because approximately 77% of the pulp &amp; paper market is just fine healthy and growing.
We intend to remain a strong participant in those market segments over the long-term.
And the first major investment program we made in our most popular products will begin in the second half of this year and it’s our $10 million – approximately $10 million expansion we did in our Gloggnitz Austria press felt plant.
Our press felts continue to be very popular because of the value that they provide on the machines that they go on to and its one of our strengths as a company.
The primary machine for that product was ordered in the beginning of last year and its being installed now and it will – let’s say de-bottlenecking of capacity for us at our popular products and sales growth will benefit from it.
So we are going to have a specific company action that we will be countercyclical to seasonal softness in the fourth quarter.
And sales growth in our markets is a long cycle.
So this is going to be typical of what you see happening over the next quarters from our company.
You will see us announcing that machinery has been installed and sales growth has been enabled.
We expect to achieve year-over-year sales growth in 2014 just as we did in 2013 and we expect sales growth in ‘15 and ‘16.
In addition we will be very cash generative going forward as we exit very expensive repositioning program and we will continue to pay down debt.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff for his insights into financial performance and after that we will go through question-and-answer with the crowd.
Cliff? Thank you Harold.
Q1 2014 sales were 4.6% below a very strong Q1 2013.
As Harold mentioned constant currency roll sales lagged behind machine clothing sales declining 11.3%.
This reduction was primarily driven by decreases in North America of 5% and Europe of 6% due to weaker industry demand in both regions.
Machine clothing sales declined 0.9% on a constant currency basis.
Geographically sales increased in South America by 4.4% while sales declined in North America by 5% Europe by 6% and Asia by 5%.
Operating income in Q1 2014 declined by $4.9 million due to lower sales volume and higher restructuring costs partially offset by decreased SG&amp;A costs increased gross margins and the impact of favorable foreign currency exchange rates.
Reductions in SG&amp;A costs and improved gross margins were largely a result of our restructuring initiatives.
Adjusted EBITDA in Q1 2014 was $25.7 million or 19.3% of sales but was 11.7% below a very strong Q1 2013 adjusted EBITDA of $29.1 million primarily due to lower sales volume.
Q1 2014 was a successful quarter related to cost-out actions.
The company spent approximately $13 million of cash on capital expenditures and restructuring costs in Q1.
For the full year we expect to spend $68 million or a similar amount to 2013 to generate approximately $25 million of cost reduction savings in 2014.
In addition we have more spending related to longer payback projects such as the China machine clothing plant which will not result in incremental savings or earnings in 2014.
While cost-out and restructuring savings initiatives are the centerpiece of Xerium’s 2014 business plan the company still expects the current market conditions inflation and negative price mix will combine to limit growth in adjusted EBITDA to approximately $116 million to $120 million assuming the current foreign exchange rate outlook and market demand.
As of Q1 2014 we had an aggregate of $42.6 million available for additional borrowings under our credit facility and smaller lines of credit and our cash balances totaled $18 million.
Free cash flow in 2014 defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures declined to $7.7 million – negative $7.7 million from a positive $6.6 million as capital expenditures increased $6.8 million to $10.5 million and trade working capital increased due to an increase in sales late in the quarter and its impact on accounts receivables as well as temporary inventory builds in our machine clothing business.
However we expect our free cash flow to improve in the second half of the year which will allow us to pay down approximately $6 million to $8 million of debt by year end.
Capital expenditures and cash restructuring payments in Q1 totaled $10.5 million and $2.6 million.
Capital expenditures primarily related to longer term payback projects such as the new plant in Ba Cheng China restructuring payments primarily related to headcount reductions and the elimination of machine clothing production in Argentina.
Trade working capital increased to $149.1 million in Q1 2014 from $136.4 million in Q4 2013.
This increase was primarily the result of an increase of $7.3 million in accounts receivable due to an increase in sales late in the quarter.
Day sales outstanding however were slightly favorable compared to Q4 2013.
In addition inventory increased by $4.4 million due to increased levels of European produced machine clothing caused by lower sales volumes in Q1 2014 while accounts payable remained essentially the same from year end.
Net debt increased to $430.5 million in the first quarter from $417.4 million in Q4 2013 primarily as a result of increased trade working capital higher capital expenditures and the execution of a capital lease in our corporate headquarters.
In addition our net debt leverage increased to 4.15 times in Q1 2014 from 3.9 times in Q4 2013.
Our effective income tax rate for the first quarter was 61.9% compared to 31.3% in the prior year’s first quarter.
Excluding the effects of restructuring our effective tax rate was 40%.
This overall effective tax rate reflects the fact that we have losses in certain jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit including losses related to restructuring.
We are off to a great start in our 2014 restructuring initiatives and are underway with a program to restructure our plant network.
As part of this plan we are in the final stages of four plant closures in the middle of a fifth plant closure and in process with a plant opening in China.
This large scale restructuring effort is a multi-year endeavor and we see a continuous stream of operational improvement opportunities.
Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we are now ready for questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions) The first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic of Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You mentioned that you expect sales to grow in the next two years could you provide a growth rate or a range that you anticipate is attainable? Yes.
Our internal grows are between 1% and 2% based upon on our specific actions we have taken to install equipment.
So it’s a bottoms-up natural mix that we are attempting to achieve with our customers and it adds ups to about 1% to 2% constant currency growth.
For both years or we are talking about ‘14 now? This year it’s the same it’s more where we are shooting at – a little higher than 1% and same for ‘15 same for ‘16.
Okay.
Could you also maybe provide more information as to how much of the first quarter sales derived from the non-paper market? It’s up 9% of our sales Katja.
Okay that’s very helpful.
Thank you so much.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer of Pressprich.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Good morning Adam.
See couple of questions can you talk about longer term what you think would be cost cutting and sales improvement you might be able to reach in terms of gross margins and EBITDA margins? Well we do have a long-term plan.
We do have a public benchmark on gross margins.
I think everyone knows that.
We certainly think we can close the gap on gross margins and EBITDA that gets down to how much investment we do into SG&amp;A.
Our EBITDA percentage I think is what you are asking Adam.
And we definitely believe that it can grow a couple of points from where it is and we have internal plans to do so.
Okay.
In terms of your CapEx maybe can you give us kind of a future look at when the cost reduction spending is over and the plant expansion spending is over what kind of normalized CapEx do you get which I guess would be probably like 2016 range? Okay.
If we gave you a matrix on our CapEx spending it’s very balanced between sales growth and cost out.
If you look at our total cash expenditures on restructuring it’s skewed more towards cost reduction due to severance.
And if you look at the closures we have made we have actually impacted a lot of our European colleagues and its lump-sum severance payment.
So if you look at our cash restructuring – our total cash out for cash CapEx cash restructuring a large component of it is severance and that’s going to go away.
We are almost through that now.
So that’s going to completely go to a very small number from what they have been running Cliff what was last year.
They are running at $15 million to $20 million.
Well $15 million to $20 million is going to de minimis.
In terms of capital spending there is obviously we are doing some foundational spending in Ba Cheng China and other locales.
So the other equipment we have ordered actually enables several years of growth.
So we have assumed a non-disruptive impact on the market and winning new positions in a value added way we call value results program.
So we are assuming a gentle fill of those assets.
So the machinery we are putting into places will last just a few years not just kind of a one year set.
If you look at the capital spending requirements in the out years it will come down but we are not finished fixing the company.
If you look at why is our gross margin 40% why is a public benchmark that we have 45%? We know why.
And the lot of these things require investments into new machinery that’s better and faster and easier to setup and easier to change and less waste.
And so we still have to do that.
We are still not where we want to be.
We do want to close that gross profit gap and that’s going to take million to do it.
What’s going to end up being? It’s going to be similar to what we are doing now.
I think this year we will spend between $45 million and $50 million on CapEx would probably have a couple of more years of that but the cash restructuring is going to almost stop because we are through the layoffs we want not that we had to go through.
It’s going to be a very small number.
And of course the EBITDA is higher.
So if you do the free cash flow model there you end up with quite a bit of free cash flow to pay debt down.
Well I guess if you back out the $15 million to $20 million restructuring costs let’s say that gets you down to that $50 million level of that how much is being spent on equipment for your plant expansions in China? The China project is going to cover several years and that the increment of that in this year’s number Cliff.
It’s about $9 million this year.
And I think it’s about another $14 million or so in ‘15 – in 2015.
Yes.
It spans three calendar years Adam.
Okay.
So if you back that out again when you get to a maintenance level it looks like it’s short $35 million $40 million is that a good number to use? Look our payback projects the projects that we obviously don’t have board approved plans for ‘15 and ‘16 today but I am trying to answer your questions frankly.
The maintenance level of CapEx of the company is probably around 30 but we see high payback projects that we would advocate doing to close the gap on gross profit and that gets us to a bigger number.
That moves you up into the 45 or 50 range.
Okay.
So those payback projects are obviously going to be incremental to EBITDA in growth beyond what the normal maintenance spending is? Exactly when I say maintenance I mean maintenance is business not just fix and break.
Right.
Yes.
So maintenance of fix and break kind of CapEx if you had to lean it out that’s maybe around 12 to 15.
But we have to be more than that to win on contracts when they come up and go next generation.
So there is a staying with the programs staying with the market program that we have to do that puts us up at a little higher number than just fixing step to breaks.
We still have a lot of good payback projects that are accretive increase our EBITDA had great ROIs and trade paybacks.
And we have a couple of years of it so we have a nice set of opportunities to get better then to close that gap on gross profit.
And that’s generally where we are headed but we don’t – we don’t have multi-year guidance we don’t have multi-year board approved plans but hopefully that’s helpful enough Adam.
Well you’ve kind of given us multi-year guidance in terms of revenue growth and in terms of paybacks and cost savings so you are kind of getting there without being specific I appreciate it.
And I will get back on the call? Thanks.
Thanks Adam.
Your next question comes from the line Craig Hoagland of Anderson Hoagland &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Hi on the fourth quarter call you sort of called out the containerboard issue in North America it sounds like things actually turned out to be difficult in Europe as well can you sort of tell us what happen during the quarter…? Yes.
Containerboard our situation was pretty much focused on rolls and rolls are a high ticket item and rolls appeal in the order as a PO.
So the paper customers this is a very paper specific situation and so when the paper – where paper producers have issues and slowdown they do not place those orders they don’t take those rolls and go through that expensive maintenance spend on their part.
And they don’t have spare rolls for every position they have the spare rolls for the most important positions.
And it’s subjective on when they can recover them and so it’s typical for – when a slow period for our customers especially our public customers who dominate the industry to put out by spending when they can and they did.
And it’s started in November December January February and it picked up in March and it’s strong in April.
And so Cliff mentioned that our trade working capital went up on an end point basis because of late breaking orders we got in March and that is true.
So our payment terms are such that they were in AR at the quarter end point and that will flush through but rolls picked backup containerboard looks fine on a sequential basis and on a year-over-year basis our clothing business was okay.
We were flat quarter-to-quarter in clothing.
We were down a little bit year-over-year in clothing.
Rolls was the story it’s a roll story and that’s a big ticket item and it’s the discretionary spend gets attention from our customers.
And so those are little bit of pulling back to happen there but we already see it releasing and we are having strength in orders our orders were up a lot.
And there is reasoning for it so that’s a good mix for us too by the way so we are having a good order situation orders were up sequentially our orders were up year-over-year.
And so I think we are through that that will slowdown and that story is collaborated by our other public peer.
And if you listen to the earnings releases of our top customers it’s all consistent there were lot of reporters yesterday and the day before and everyone said the same thing.
So it’s a very consistent story and we felt it too as a top supplier to the industry.
Okay.
And then flat 20% order growth is that for rolls is that for the – that include clothing as well? That includes clothing as well.
Okay.
And that level of orders I am just curious how you get from there to expected revenue growth of closer to 1%? Well we have some specific actions also one of the big ones the (indiscernible) ramp up is it’s important to doing these numbers here I mean that’s a big investment we have made and it’s unclogging a situation that’s a bottleneck for the company.
And we will get an immediate release of a backlog there if you will I mean backorder.
So we are going to be fixing a jammed up situation and it will help our orders that we get to ship an invoice in ‘14.
So you have brought down backlog.
Okay thank you.
You are welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Weiss of DSW Investment.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Doug.
And I guess this follows up in the prior question you said at the $146 million of orders that’s for rolls and clothing? Yes it is.
The split would be we are going to be heavier on the PMC side rolls would be a little bit lower but that is the blend rate.
And what’s the delivery period for that typically? A roll when we receive a roll it’s an extremely important asset for our customers.
And so when it shows up they want it back.
And the 60 days will be typical.
It takes us it’s not an easy job sometimes 90 days for the more complicated rolls.
There is a lot of inspection that has to happen to the shaft and all the metal components to look at the stress and the mountings and they have to be stripped down properly and built up from their base up and balanced.
Many of our high-end working rolls have special drilling and grooving and balancing and coatings.
So it’s a complicated build.
It’s a lot of skilled workmanship involved 60 to 90 days and then they want it back because it’s usually in a critical position in the machine.
And those spares are needed.
So our customers have learned their lesson and not let them hang out in our plant and may go and stage them in their own plant.
It’s their asset they own it and we recovered and service it and so 60 to 90 days.
On the clothing side we get POs straight up that have a lead time ask on them.
And then I would say maybe the majority of our business however is ongoing positions that we have and we work to min-maxes.
There is usually between one and three pieces that we negotiate behind the position because of how long they last press out will last a certain a very short amount of time woven fabrics a little longer and dryers a lot longer but based on the life of the product and the production schedule that the customer has they will maybe request us on the min-max program and we abide by it and we monitor it and we replenish it and there is sunset clauses to those programs.
So if they haven’t consumed the parts over a certain period of time we invoiced it anyway but generally that does not happen due to the life of the product.
So the life on the machine is short for the clothing products that are popular that we make very short.
And it takes them longer to get it than it takes them to use it.
So we have to have this min-max program that we all abide by in the industry to it’s not just us no one in the industry could make a product inside of the neat cycle.
So it’s a min-max kind of setup for the industry.
So I mean is it reasonable to think that that order level would be largely delivered in the second quarter? Yes that’s reasonable.
That’s certainly our expectation.
I also saw the comments from our peer and I believe them too which is orders are really a leading indicator because the macroeconomic environment is going to dictate the amount of paper and board production that’s going to get made.
And if they don’t run the machine and the part doesn’t get consumed that we make.
So there is business plans and indicators but then there has to be actual use in production and we are directly linked to actual production.
So the tried and true statistic that we correlate to is paper and board production rates.
And so backlog is something we monitor in the order rates but it’s a leading indicator that’s correlated to our sales a stronger one is paper and board production rates.
And then I just wanted to clarify on the non-wovens and non-paper sales you mentioned that you had a $100 million it wasn’t clear to me exactly what that $100 million signified you also said at the beginning to the first question the 10% of your sales or roughly 10% was non-paper.
So I am just trying to square those two numbers right because 10% will get you to about $13 million not really at a $100 million run-rate.
What does that – can you just square those numbers? Yes.
Let me give you a few more numbers.
We have a business here internally that’s Steve Johnston is the leader of it and it’s focused upon revenue diversification outside of non-paper products.
We are looking at industrial rolls fiber cement non-woven mechanical service pulping applications for paper and non-paper pulp.
And that business unit is around $100 million in sales.
And the specific question that Cliff answered had to do with a couple of the products.
So the non-woven and fiber cement markets are quite large and healthy and were not a big participant.
We haven’t been the big participant looking back.
We have never been a big participant.
So there is no change to that story.
However they fit our machineries very nicely and we are entering them more deliberately with product innovation and specific machinery geared at making those type of products.
They do have to specifically be made.
Those are estimates on these market sizes some estimates for fiber cement are around $50 million some estimates on the market for non-wovens are around $100 million.
So you would say they are niche markets but we are a small player and so they can be significant to us.
We have very small market shares.
And if we just get a few points out of those that adds up give them the numbers here and we are shooting for 1% or 2% growth.
And if you look at size 550 kind of top line 1% to 2% do the math and then you just need to get a few million here or there.
So it’s a very specific focus for us.
And mechanical services are growing and we are growing in non-paper products.
So it’s not a reporting segment but it’s definitely a business segment and there is a business thrust and a strategic thrust.
And we are having successful – and the products are right on our company average for profit rate no better no worse.
Okay.
So – and then I guess you spoke last quarter and I think you alluded to at the beginning of the call some of the mix pressure on pricing from the changes in the declines in printing paper production.
Do you have those same mix pressures on the roll side or is it really just on the clothing side? Dave Pretty you might be able to help me.
You have been there longer than I.
So wouldn’t you mind taking that question please? Sure.
I have no problem.
As far as the mix impacts related to rolls no it’s really not – it’s not in the same order of magnitude that we would see in the clothing business pricing between printing and writing bound paper grades on PMC.
There is – there are issues we need to deal with there but on the rolls business no not at all.
It’s pretty consistent across the board.
Yes.
And then just I don’t know if you can answer this or not and this is my last question kind of a big picture question just looking at the overall industry structure.
Do you think there is room in either of the segments or in both of the segments for more industry consolidation or do you think that the industry is consolidated to a point where that would cause the anti-trust issues? No I think there is room for consolidation.
If you look at the decline in North America or Europe in paper and board production then help me out here Dave over the last 10 years how much paper and board productions from that in North America for instance.
What is it? It’s around 20% of the market hang on with me here.
Yes.
Yes the March – I will just say in North America the PMC market has declined about 25% in the last 10 years.
And paper production declined about 20%.
If you look at Europe the market for our products has declined about 26% while paper production has also declined.
But the real deal is how much capacity is out there for what we do.
And then the people just go from three shifts to two shifts but still have the capacity there of two shifts to one shifts or four shifts to three shifts.
That gets down the plant closures now right now at this point in time.
We are probably doing more than anybody with our plant closures to correct the industry capacity.
I don’t know see our competitors doing what we are doing at all.
But be that as it may I do think there is open capacity in the industry for what we do roll recovering and clothing making.
So for sure our customers have open capacity in the segments but there is open capacity for our products of amongst our peers I believe that there are – there is room for capacity consolidation yes.
Now what’s really going to happen I don’t know because the Tier 1 guys us Voith Metso Andritz Albany (indiscernible) AstenJohnson the Tier 1 players who compete on value.
We all have open capacity here or there and we have strong positions that are stronger than some of the one plant kind of competitors out there who planned to gain differently.
In the case of the machine builders they have very strong portfolios of machinery and components amongst our pure-play peers.
It varies on product strengths and service strengths.
So I think there is consolidation that’s possible.
As far as us we are very focused on our own enterprise and making our enterprise more valuable and being very deliberate and not hasty with our growth actions and selling on value with innovative products.
So it’s not a quickie kind of a deal it’s kind of slow and so I would say consolidation you get into distressed is anyone distressed kind of a deal.
So we need to be consolidated there is not a lot of distress you can see the free cash flow of our company and you can see wherever contribution margin or gross profits everyone sees that.
So it’s still a pretty profitable business for everybody and I don’t think the decline is such that we have distressed players.
So then you get into do you want if some want to go consolidate and pay a premium when they have open sassy themselves and then you get into those kind of decisions.
So it’s not a topic in the industry really it’s really about getting oriented properly staying value focused delivering results for shareholders why you do it? It’s not a vibrant business development market.
There are opportunities as far as us we are very focused on the matters that we discussed today and generally held there on those lines.
Okay alright.
Well thanks for answering all the questions.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Kus of Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hi guys good morning.
Hi Richard.
Just a quick one for me as most of my questions have been answered already.
In terms of cost inflation you guys mentioned it briefly in the release what have you seen where does it hits you most and have you been able to take price actions to offset this or have been more of a cost focus that you guys have used to offset the input cost inflation? Cost inflation runs a little over $5 million a year and is mainly labor and is mainly statutory most of our workforce is unionized and lot of our salaried employees are in countries with statutory costs of living increases.
And we mimic that in the North America so that we don’t have differential treatment of our people.
So that number ends up being a little over $5 million for wage and medical inflation.
With regards to offsetting it we have offsetting actions that we go through with headcount elimination as well as other aspiration excellence programs.
And if you look at our cost reductions broadly I know Richard that you have only about 20% of our cost reductions are based on these plant closures the majority of our cost reductions in this year plan are based on operational excellence improvements and they are sustainable and the whole game plan obviously is to offset our inflation offset any negative price mix we have and increase our EBITDA on a net basis and we have that that’s kind of muscled now made not have been two years ago but it’s the way we run the company now.
Sure.
We certainly see it in your results over the course of the past call it year and a half or so.
So anyway I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you Richard.
Your next question comes from the line of John Koerber of Bennett Management.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
I have several questions.
One is as you talked about your in-roads in non-paper it seemed to be that you didn’t that when you give the 1% to 2% sales growth you are really being conservative because you have other pockets where you think you might get greater sales growth.
Is that a fair way of looking of it that the industry is going to go 1% to 2% and that’s all your forecasting but you have other places where you really think you are going to make more growth.
You may beat that number on the top line? That’s correct.
We are being conservative and it would be pretty bold of us to assume that we are just going to march in and be successful when there is very good competitors in all of these slots.
And we are not going to be fighting with price we are going to be fighting with value.
So those wins come a little slower when you compete in that manner but you are correct that there is upside to the numbers but we are really looking at a global market environment that’s – if you look at resi or any of the industry data that the paper and board market itself is growing and it is around 2% growth.
The printing and writing segment itself is declining about 3% and that’s about 23% of the total.
But Asia is growing tissue is growing paper and board grades are growing with GDP and the GDP varies by country of course and with affluence.
So the underdeveloped countries as they grow there is a direct correlation to how much paper and board they use as that happens with disposable diapers and tissues and paper towels and all this sort of thing.
So it’s a growing base market and we are in it and we are vibrant.
And we are pursuing these non-paper markets.
So you are correct you did pickup that we are being conservative there but it would be kind of bold to put a bigger number down.
If when our results suggest that we can be stronger with our – with expectations we will stay but right now we are just kind of looking for that 1% to 1.5% growth.
Okay.
Second question is I believe you commented that you will pay down a little debt this year? The way I run my numbers that implies you probably our breakeven that does on working capitals in other words you highlight yes we have working capital investment.
And in the first quarter just by the timing of late sales but you probably will not be I have any investment that year-over-year is that true? Yes.
If you look at our – there is two things out there is a rate there is efficiency and then there is what are the dollar bills.
So if you look at our dollar bills in AR and in the components they are inventory AP.
And the total dollars invested as a percentage of working capital we intend to take our working capital percentage down we are not at this practice level yet even but measuring ourselves again to ourselves.
And to that end we appointed a leader this year in charge of it Theresa is our new leader our new Treasurer and she is here with us.
And she is in charge of driving that number to best practice levels in a sustainable manner.
So we do have improvement programs to increase our efficiency.
The offset to that is increasing sales and your timing of it and we intend to grow in the fourth quarter due to our specific actions that we are taking in (indiscernible) and to get press out at the door.
So if you look at the timing of all of that we are going to end up with some working capital that’s going out the year as a percentage of sales.
Cliff would you like to add any comment? I will just say John your point is well taken and I would agree with it.
We expect as Harold said the rate to come down but we – the dollars we think from a year-to-year standpoint the offset of the sales increase will be offset by actions we are taking so the dollars will be relatively flat with the prior year.
And so with that expectation is for the remainder of the year.
And then my final question is you highlighted probably one of your first paragraphs that your clothing EBITDA was up year-over-year which means your roll recovers is where you really suffered year-over-year on an annual 2014 is that just going to be catch – are you going to be down in roll covers or will there be some catch up there? Yes.
That’s really getting caught up and we are getting caught up as we speak the slowness that happened.
This is an item you can put off but you can’t avoid.
And so as production is picked up so has our roll cover reordering and its actually strong right now so we definitely intend that – over an annual basis that’s going to be very consistent.
So definitely expecting that to be caught up and for the full year Cliff did you have that number?  I would make a couple of points.
One is if you compare quarter-to-quarter the rolls in Q1 of ‘13 were very strong category for us and really drove a lot of the exceptional results we had last year.
Rolls were actually weak even relative to our normal base this year so you had kind of both ends of the spectrum you also had some mix issues within the North America results which were temporary.
So we expect that the roll business will come back to normal levels for the remaining quarters of the year.
Okay.
And then my final question and I don’t know how much you will comment on it through the news story that somebody is trying to put a lawsuit on Directors on fiduciary actions what is that about? Yes.
We saw that and Kevin our General Counsel I would like him to make – to comment please Kevin.
John this is Kevin McDougall we are aware of the investigation by the law firm it’s come to our attention and they may relate to CEO incentive compensation as the subject.
The company believes that all of its compensation practices are lawful.
The company and the Board will conduct the results appropriately on this issue and we have no further comment on this matter.
Fair enough.
Well alright thank you very much for all the guidance you have given for 2014 and I look forward to subsequent calls this year of all being positive.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Thank you John.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Craig Hoagland of Anderson Hoagland &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Hi just a quick follow-up to your comments on market growth rates if you look at the 77% of the markets that’s not printing and writing paper what kind of growth rate do you put on that? Well the net growth for the markets around 123 and that’s quick math in my head you are asking me to do a ratio but I can’t right now.
Okay I can do it.
I guess this is… Probably 3%.
Okay.
And if you look at the compound at 7 Asia is big Asia is growing around 5 to 7.
If you look at tissue tissue is growing 5 to 7.
Indonesia specifically within Asia and China are our fast growth.
Paper and board are GDP specific to the country.
And so there are some hotspots in GDP and then there are some countries not doing so well.
And the U.S.
is doing fine and we are doing fine.
If you look at the clothing our numbers are stronger as you have heard.
In the rolls they are discretionary so they are going to get pushed and pulled based on health of our customers and their discretionary decision but over one year period they will be steady it’s just something that has to be done.
When the rolls need service the machine that is not running well at all and this is just a matter of time before it comes to us.
So we are growing nicely in Asia.
We are – we are growing nicely in tissue.
We are growing nicely in fiber cement and non-woven’s and so we have our personal strengths that are story specific and we try to be transparent about it.
And we primarily are bottlenecked.
If you look at the spending that we are doing and spin back to the fall of ‘12 when the board made a big strategic decision to advance the cost here we were sold out and fiber cements sold out non-wovens.
We were sold out in press sales.
And I am talking globally here and these are very expensive gems to get out of.
The Ba Cheng plant is a growth story to debottleneck our company in press sales.
And the investments we are making in these expensive looms that are dialed in to make fiber or cement non-woven products that’s an expensive endeavor as well.
So we spend a lot of money to enable these growth activities to happen.
And so we will have a story to ourselves because we will debottleneck ourselves and then you have the natural market environment.
So we primarily see ourselves.
We are working on the gem.
It’s not like we were setting on open capacity.
We had no capacity for most popular products that we make.
And it just has taken a lot of time because the machines themselves take over a year to get and then you have to build a building to put the machine in.
So we are trying to be free cash flow neutral as we go through this thing and we just have to be patient and we can’t get too crazy about it.
So we see a lot of upside potential here based on pace and timing of filling those machines but we have been conservative and John picked that up.
And it could be better if we have wins and it could be solar.
So we are pretty comfortable with the – we are trying to set expectations properly.
And then you always want to have a management team have stronger stretch goals than what they say and we do have that.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome Craig.
At this time there are no additional questions.
And I would like to turn the conference back over to Harold Bevis for closing remarks.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks.
Thank you very much and thank you everyone for calling in today and everyone asked some good questions.
I appreciate it.
And we look forward to speaking on the next quarter.
With that we will end the call.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2014 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call on August 6 2014.
I will now turn the call over to Cliff Pietrafitta EVP and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shantale and welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2014 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning is Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and the senior management team of the company.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then we will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter results.
Subsequently we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter and year-to-date periods were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after the market closed on Tuesday August 5 2014 and were also announced in a press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I would also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2014.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described into these [ph] press release and our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today August 6 2014 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in the additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All of these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Cliff and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's second quarter results.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights.
Our second quarter sales increased 0.4% over Q2 of 2013 and 4.1% over Q1 of 2014 on a constant currency comparable basis.
The weak Q1 sales environment in North America related to containerboard production and the impact of the harsh winter relented and North America sales improved by 2.3%.
Asia and South America sales both showed strong results as Asia grew 3.5% and South America grew 7.3% compared to Q2 of 2013.
European sales remain sluggish in the quarter and were up 5.3% compared to Q2 of 2013.
Roll sales improved 2.1% over Q2 of 2013 and 12.9% over Q1 of 2014.
While Machine Clothing sales were down 0.6% compared to the prior year second quarter and flat compared to Q1 of this year.
Secondly Q2 2014 adjusted EBITDA increased as a result of improved sales and strong cost reductions.
Q2 of 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $29.4 million.
This is an increase of $2.5 million or 9.3% versus Q2 of last year and is primarily driven by a steady market and strong cost reduction.
Cost reduction added $6.7 million in year-over-year adjusted EBITDA in Q2 of 2014.
At this time I'd like to refer you to our slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
Starting on Page 3 of the slide deck we have summarized some key takeaways regarding the current state of our business.
First we saw the market rebound globally in Q2 versus Q1 particularly in North America.
Our orders remained at healthy levels and have risen at a 3.3% compound annual growth rate since the beginning of 2012 which is in line with our sales growth during that period and above overall market growth.
We continue to see expansion in our gross margins and lower SG&amp;A spending as these measures have improved at 5.5% and 5.2% compound annual growth rate since the beginning of 2012.
You can clearly see the impact of our restructuring that cost containment initiatives are having on our business.
Ultimately our cost-out actions have resulted in a 19.4% improvement in adjusted EBITDA since Q1 of 2012 when coupled with our sales growth results.
Looking forward Xerium has also been busy investing in the future.
While some of our investments had paid back fairly quickly specifically in the cost-out area we have also invested in long-term payback projects.
And in fact from 2013 to 2015 we expect to spend an approximately $68 million on 10 separate long lead time projects.
The first of those projects is the installation of a DILO needling machine which is a very special-purpose machine used for high-end press felt and it will begin to pay back in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our longest and largest lead time investment is the construction of a greenfield new press felt plant in Ba Cheng China and it will begin production in the second half of next year.
At this time I'd like to provide an overview of the current status of the markets and our plans for the future.
Please turn to Page 4 of the slide deck.
The global pulp paper and board growth has been in the range of 1% to 2% per year globally in recent years.
According to RISI which is the leading trade publication 70% of the global industries growth will be in Asia over the next 5 years.
Growth in developed markets of North America and Europe will be largely offset by weakness in printing and writing and news print grades.
Xerium has multiple initiatives underway to grow in Asia for rolls clothing and service and become more competitive in Asia for all of its main product and service offerings.
Xerium is expanding output capabilities in all 4 of its Asian plants and as mentioned is building a fifth Asian plant located in Ba Cheng.
The company is also adding sophisticated rolls and service engineers in China and China is the largest trade market in the world for paper and board production.
Global paper production drives our business and is presented on Page 5 of the slide deck.
This chart indicates that global paper production is forecasted to grow by 1.3% from 2014 through 2022 as growth in pulp and packaging of tissue grades will be partially offset by reductions in printing writing and news print grades of paper.
Printing and writing and news print grades of paper continue to decline due to digital substitution.
GDP grades of paper and board are increasing in all regions in line with GDP and emerging market wealth [ph] per capita as well as industrial production.
Xerium has multiple new products and new capacity initiatives underway to be able to fully participate in these growth areas.
Tissue and personal care products continue to grow globally and the company has strong products in these grades of paper production.
Xerium is also a participant in 2 smaller but growing markets.
Fiber cement as shown on Page 6 of the slide deck is one of those and is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 8.5% through 2017.
Fiber cement is of course tied to the global housing industry and Xerium is a participant in these markets and it's strengthening its product portfolio to better compete.
Likewise on Page 7 is the Nonwoven market and it is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 8.5% through 2017.
The -- excuse me I was referring to fiber cement.
Nonwovens are growing at 5.4% as you can see on the chart.
And nonwoven fabrics continue to gain share against woven fabrics.
And once again Xerium is introducing new nonwoven fabric products into this growing market.
Turning to Page 8.
We get into a little bit more detail here on how growth varies by grade within each of our regions over the last 5-year period.
Each geography has grown with Asia being both the largest market in the world and the market with the highest growth rate.
Page 9 is a different look at the market which presents paper production for the year-to-date period through April.
So now we're turning to the 2014 update on our markets.
It is important to note that while the overall market grew 1.2% in Q1 '14 versus Q1 '13 there is real diversions in regional and grades specific growth rates.
In addition quarter-to-quarter production amongst our customers can vary which drives quarter-to-quarter sales volatility on our end and the sales of paper machine clothing and roll covers.
Page 10 is a further breakdown of some detail that shows year-to-date growth on April year-to-date versus April 2013 by region and by grade.
The North America region is having a tough year and we can see this on this chart.
But having said that it's also evident that large segments of the paper market such as containerboard are quite healthy and are growing.
Xerium is well positioned to navigate changing market demand both regionally and by paper grade.
Over a shorter horizon the macro environment has improved from Q1 2014 as the weakness in North America Containerboard the largest market segment in the global market has abated.
Q1 2014 was also negatively impacted by the harsh winter season in North America and our paper producers experienced it.
These downstream issues hampered our sales in Q1 and their absence in Q2 contribute to a rebound that we have experienced in Q2.
Order patterns have improved in all regions since the end of Q3 2013.
At the current time we believe that third quarter sales outlook for 2014 will be comparable to the second quarter of 2014.
Asian market growth and Asia sales continue to be a bright spot for the industry and for the company.
Q2 Asia sales grew 3.5% on a constant currency basis compared to the same quarter of last year which we believe is in line with market growth in the region as you can see from this data.
The company is building a new plant in Ba Cheng China to make high-end press felt as mentioned to continue this growth vector.
Construction is well underway and the plant is expected to hit run rate by -- full run rate by the first quarter of 2016.
So we have a multi-quarter ramp-up for that plant.
In addition capacity in our China rolls plant have been expanded in this quarter with the arrival of equipment that was transferred from a previously closed rolls plant in Europe.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff for his insights and comments into our financial performance.
Cliff? Thank you Harold.
Our order pattern as presented on Slide 11 remained strong and the company has a large backlog going into Q3 2014.
It is customary in the industry to receive blanket order commitments for specific machine positions during the year but particularly at year end.
While orders are a good leading indicator of sales actual production hours by our customers will be the best indicator of future sales.
At this time we believe that paper production in Q3 will continue to provide a stable sales base.
However the outlook for Q4 is less clear and is a risk to our sales and adjusted EBITDA guidance.
Next I would like to direct you to Slide 12.
Constant currency net sales have grown approximately 3% over the last 2.5 years in line with the growth rate we have experienced in our orders.
This growth rate is above market growth of 1% to 2% and we expect that to continue as our growth initiatives play out over time.
Constant currency rolls net sales increased by 2.1% in Q2 primarily -- Q2 of the prior year primarily driven by an increase of 8% in North America and 5% in South America.
These increases were partially offset by a decline of 7% in Europe.
Constant currency machine clothing sales decreased slightly by 0.6% from Q2 2013 primarily driven by a decrease of 4% in Europe and a decrease of 2.8% in North America.
These decreases were partially offset by increases of 7.7% in South America and 3.6% in Asia.
Moving to Slide 13.
We continue to see improvements in our gross margins.
Largely as a result of our cost-out initiatives and operational excellence programs our gross margins have improved 5.5% compounded annually over the last 2.5 years.
In our clothing segment gross margins increased 210 basis points to 41.2% in the current quarter compared to 39.1% in the second quarter of 2013 as a result of restructuring savings operational efficiencies and favorable absorption in North America and South America due to increased production levels.
In our Roll Covers segment gross margin increased by 30 basis points to 36.4% for the 3 months ended June 30 2014 and 36.1% in the second quarter of 2013.
The increase is primarily due to favorable labor costs in North America and restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by decreased gross margins as a result of higher sales of products and services with lower gross margins.
SG&amp;A expenses presented on Slide 14 have improved 5.2% annually over the last 2.5 years primarily as a result of actions taken to rightsize the company's cost structure.
For the 3 months ended June 30 2014 SG&amp;A expenses have decreased $0.3 million or 0.8% to $35.4 million in Q2 2014 from $35.7 million in Q2 2013 primarily as a result of headcount reductions and restructuring savings and decreased management incentive compensation of $0.7 million.
These decreases were partially offset by increased selling commissions on the increase in sales volume and inflationary increases in salaries in Q2 2014 over the prior year.
SG&amp;A expenses increased $0.5 million or 1.4% compared to the first quarter of 2014 primarily as a result of increased selling commissions on the increase in sales volume and the inflationary increases in salaries in Q2 2014 partially offset by headcount reductions and restructuring savings.
The earnings quarterly adjusted EBITDA trend as presented on Slides 15 and 16 evidences the impact of our restructuring efforts.
On a quarterly basis we have seen a 19% improvement over the last 2.5 years on a trailing -- and on a trailing 12-month basis we have seen nearly an 11% increase since the end of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA in Q2 2014 was $29.4 million or 21.1% of net sales and was 9.3% above Q2 2013 adjusted EBITDA of $26.9 million or 19.4% of net sales.
These improvements once again are primarily driven by increased net sales in gross margins and our cost-out and restructuring initiatives.
Our adjusted earnings per share presented on Slide 17 which is defined as earnings per share adjusted for restructuring charges loss on debt extinguishments inventory writeoffs currency loses and other nonrecurring items such as our former CEO retirement expenses was $0.43 per share in Q2 of 2014 up 16% from $0.37 per share in Q2 2013.
On a trailing 12-month basis at June 30 2014 our adjusted earnings per share was $1.75 per share an increase of 54% over $1.14 per share at June 30 2013.
These improvements are primarily driven by increased net sales in gross margins and our cost-out and restructuring initiatives.
We have invested heavily to enable future growth.
In fact we will spend approximately $68 million from 2013 through 2015 on committed projects implemented to drive revenue and earnings growth.
While this spending will have a minimal benefit in 2014 it sets the company up to continue the recent trends of improvements in adjusted EBITDA.
Our spending has touched all regions.
However we have focused on those markets and products where the largest opportunity for growth exists.
Specifically as presented on Slide 18 our investment is target at a number of areas including: a China Press Felt production to service current and future customers in the region; expanded high press felt capacity to service growing global market demand; expanded mechanical services capability to service this growing need in the North American market; and finally expanding capacity in fiber cement nonwoven and drier fabrics.
Moving onto Slide 19 we are also filling in legacy products for guests.
Here are a few examples from our 17 programs in process.
First the TAD Tissue Product is nearing completion with market introduction in the second half of 2014.
This product will complete the machine clothing product portfolio with a growing tissue market.
Next the shoe press belt is slated to launch in early 2015 and is a special high-end belt for press rolls on high-demand press configurations.
And finally a Xerium exclusive the SMART Roll for Suction Press Applications enables paper and tissue makers to view and manage nip conditions and suction roll applications.
This project is expected to launch in Q4 of 2014.
In 2013 we spent $22 million on restructuring activities to take out over $23 million of cost.
In 2014 we plan to take out over another $25 million in costs and are developing additional cost savings plans for 2015 and 2016.
Slide 20 includes a few examples of our improvements to our cost and operational structure.
These include: first the upgrade of our rolls and mechanical services facility in Duren Germany.
This facility will now handle the production from our closed facility in Heidenheim Germany.
We expect an improvement in quality and lower costs as a result of this consolidation.
Second project includes the consolidation of production from our Buenos Aires Argentina facility to our Piracicaba Brazil facility.
This we expect will also improve quality and lower cost.
Next we would like to provide an update on our Brazilian tax litigation matter that we have previously disclosed in our financial statements.
This update is provided on Slide 21.
We have been actively litigating this case for some time now and we analyzed but did not change our ASC 740-10 position at June 30 2014.
However we are currently evaluating the cost and benefits of participating in the Tax Amnesty Program offered by the Brazilian Revenue Department.
This Amnesty Program is open to tax payers during a short window until August 25 2014 and represents a settlement opportunity.
The rules for participation were finalized and only issued on August 1 2014.
This amnesty program offers significant reductions on the penalties and interests that have been assessed against us depending on how quickly the agreed amount is paid.
At this time there can be no assurance that we will or will not participate in this amnesty program.
If we choose to participate we are -- and are able to secure in this necessary financing and are accepted into the amnesty program then we would take -- then we would anticipate taking a charge against net income in the third quarter of 2014 in the range of approximately $26 million to $29 million subject to currency exchange rates.
This charge will not affect adjusted EBITDA and will close out and settle a matter that relates back to a 2005 transaction.
In summary as presented on Slide 22 our markets are large and despite pockets of weakness are growing.
Our orders and sales have grown faster than the underlying market over the last 2.5 years.
However our markets have shown pronounced volatility from quarter-to-quarter and will likely continue to do so.
The interim's results are trending up in sales gross margins and earnings and we expect to achieve our adjusted EBITDA guidance of $116 million to $120 million in 2014 with the major risk being quarterly sales volatility.
We were also investing in the future growth of our business by introducing new products and investing capital on assets to increase capacity and fuel sales growth.
; Thank you Cliff.
And that concludes our prepared remarks and the overview of our slide deck and we're now ready for questions.
Shantale may we have the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> In the second quarter how much of sales were non-paper related? Non-paper related? LLC</strong> Yes from...
Cliff we have that handy? The percentage has been steady.
Looking backwards it's around 10%.
A lot of the investments that we've made the foreign investments that Cliff alluded to are in the non-paper area and we do anticipate that becoming a bigger number and we have plans to grow that number.
LLC</strong> But we will see -- as I understand we will see this more in 2015 than this year.
Correct.
We have explicit plans to grow on the non-paper arena.
LLC</strong> You also mentioned that the third quarter will be comparable to the second quarter.
Can you elaborate on that? Do you expect same sales or growth? Yes we have a very strong order book the 3% growth rate that we've alluded to has continued.
We have strong order patterns in the second quarter and in July.
And we did have a good July.
And we don't have any line of sight or any forward indications right now for any disruptive ordering patterns from our customers globally in Q3.
And so we are anticipating a strong third quarter on the top line and the bottom line.
We have incremental cost out actions that are kicking in on the top of the Q2 actions so we do expect incremental improvement in the bottom line as well.
LLC</strong> I think in the prepared remarks you mentioned that you're going to be spending around $70 million in capital expenditures and restructuring charges in 2014.
How much of this is CapEx? And how much is restructuring? Katja approximately $50 million will be CapEx and the remainder of $20 million being in restructuring area.
Your next question comes from the line of Melissa Tan of R.W.
Pressprich.
If you can please elaborate a little bit more on the Brazilian tax litigation issue? Is that related to the recent plant closures? And also for the $26 million to $29 million would that be a cash charge? And I don't quite understand the part of where you talk about if you need to secure necessary financing.
Okay.
The matter has been covered in our filing documents.
And it goes back to 2005 actions taken by the company at that time with regards to the tax strategies.
And all of those -- all of the things the company did were allowed and appropriate at that time.
And the laws have changed in Brazil since then and some of these matters have become disputed amongst tax payers and we are part of that.
It is a big topic in that country.
And it is an old matter.
It is not in any way shape or form related to any of our restructuring activities.
It created this entire management team.
And it's -- there's an opportunity available in Brazil right now to settle the matter versus disputing it in court which has been our path.
And the resolution if taken if we decide as a board that would be a board decision of course and if we did decide to do it if we would prefer to borrow on a specific manner in a tax-advantaged manner to pay that bill and it would be to be paid in cash the cash does not need to be lump sum.
There's various payment options including down payments and payments over time.
There is a lump sum opportunity but there's a scale and set payment options.
And our board is discussing these as you can guess from these comments on what should we do in regards to this matter.
And if we do it how would it be financed what type of financing should we secure.
And then of course we need to apply and be accepted.
So the plant closure is independent of that.
It's being funded from ongoing cash flow.
It will not see any timing pushes or pulls at all from this matter.
This is a separate administrative matter that corporate -- that your corporate has been engaged in for some time.
Okay.
And if you guys do not -- if you do not reach agreement then would there be a second option? Yes there is actually a wide range of legal options.
But most likely we will continue to -- along the path we've been on which is to argue our case in court.
And that's most likely will continue on for a couple of years.
Okay.
And is it the second option then there's no additional payment for the meantime.
Except for the expenses of the legal battle.
And there are specific rules for how to contest and argue our case.
And they have some financial implications and we would be obliged to follow those and they're not negotiable.
So I would say Melissa that the ability to contest this matter and not incur expenses is coming to an end.
And so going forward whatever path we take does have financial consequences.
Okay great.
And the second question has to do with your restructuring costs.
You mentioned $68 million from 2013 to 2016.
Can you talk about how much of that has been spent already and how much of that is the cash restructuring? Because in the second quarter I think in your income statement it's a $7 million number.
And then in the press release you mentioned a cash number of $4 million.
Okay there's 2 things mentioned there commingled a little bit.
First our overall cash flow model in the company we've been into a heavy spending mode the last 2 years by plan and we have invested heavily into cash restructuring which has primarily been severance.
And the capital spending which is the $68 million referred to here has primarily been based upon sales growth on a go-forward basis.
And by plan we've been free cash flow neutral in the last couple of years.
We've been using our free cash flow and reinvesting it with a small amount of debt paid down in there.
And going forward we have a business cash flow model that's very cash generative and has good debt paid down in the outyears.
So the $68 million has already been put into all of our guidance we've given.
The cash flow timing of the payment streams on equipment are very specific to the machines.
I would say Cliff the majority has been spent but we have more spending to happen in that $68 million.
Yes there's that $15 million that goes into 2015.
$15 million of the $68 million approximately.
Carryover.
It goes into 2015.
So the -- our cash flow story is the CapEx part of the company's strategy will continue more or less within that band as our current plans over a multiyear period.
The cash restructuring is going to significantly come down because we've gone through the majority of the severance actions that have been needed to be taken.
And that incorporate -- my comment incorporates the yet to come severance associated with the Brazil action.
And we're at a higher level of EBITDA now.
And so if you couple the facts together of a higher level of EBITDA less spending we're going to be very cash generative.
And so that is our cash flow model that is our business model.
And we're pretty much on track with it.
Okay.
So it's fair to assume that after that last $15 million in 2015 the numbers in 2016 should be like minimis? Well CapEx as I mentioned CapEx this year on a GAAP reported basis will be around 50 and that includes construction and progress on Ba Cheng and a couple of other projects.
So there's cash here which is less than the GAAP accounting due to construction and process.
And in go forward -- our go forward plan now has a similar level of CapEx but much less cash restructuring.
But CapEx we still have work to do.
So we feel customer pull to be a bigger company than we are and we have ordered the pace and actions to achieve those outcomes and they include growing in nonwovens fiber cement mechanical services our SMART Roll automation technology and the product line portfolio programs that we're leading.
So we foresee a multiyear need to continue the program and have plans to do that but it has required cash flow neutrality up to this point due to the level of EBITDA we started at.
And we're through the majority of the fix there which was cost take out.
So we're going to spend the same amount of money going forward but be cash generative on the base model on CapEx.
Your next question comes from the line of John Koerber of Bennett.
I have about 3 questions.
The first is I didn't specifically hear the answer this way.
If you were going to go down the route of settlement in Brazil is it a $26 million to $29 million charge of cash cash out the door? That's our current outlook yes.
Okay.
The next question is following up on a question about how non-paper is basically about 10% of the business now but you expect it to get bigger.
Is it -- you have a couple of slides that indicate hey growth in one of the segments is 5.4 growth in another of the segments is 8.5 but because you're going to get bigger in them is it reasonable to assume that what you're really targeting because you're going to be taking share I imagine is a double-digit growth if in 2015 on those segments? Okay.
John I first want to clarify the question one that I answered.
The numbers that you stated were numbers if we took a lump sum.
But we haven't made that decision at all.
And the numbers vary if you look at the statute which just came out last Friday so it's fresh for us too and the payment options.
If you take a down payment and pay later the total cash out would accumulate to a higher number.
And we're looking at [indiscernible] and cash flows over time but your comment was right on the money if it's lump sum out of the program.
Okay I want to clarify that.
If I read correctly the 10-Q right now -- the Brazilians are appealing.
But right now the amount out the door that's due -- and you're saying "Hey we're challenging too but it's 31.5 [ph]." Is that correct? Is that -- that's the disclosure in the Q is the way I read it? That's the current matter from the Brazilian point of view yes.
Okay.
And they're appealing that number upward.
So you're faced with the decision of just putting the whole thing behind you no more legal fees which will be real for the next 2 years.
And taking a bit of a discount off that if you go that way or spreading out a little but probably not being greater in the down payment and stream up being 31.5 [ph] over the next several years.
Is that the way you're doing it? I think in layman's terms you have it right on the money.
We're -- the penalties and interest on top of the claim could be a higher number.
There's a chance in the amnesty program to handle this matter in a certain manner.
It's all in writing.
And the net effect of our specific matter in that program would give you a current amount due in the range of 25% to 29%.
How we finance it could vary the cash flow and NPV of it.
And we just -- we have to decide upon that and to be honest we love to accept it and the application into the program as do other contesting taxpayers.
So we wanted to bring it forth because it's going to play out before we speak again.
And we just wanted everyone to know we're looking at it just be transparent.
But you have it right from a layman's perspective John.
Okay.
Then let's go to the targeted growth in non-paper whereas the slides show nice growth better than paper growth but the reality of it is if you target these areas you're expecting greater growth than the jagra [ph] that's on the slide simply because you're going to be taking share.
Right.
So the question could be "Hey the market's growing 0% to 1% you're growing at 3% what's happening already?" So in this tough market that we've been in our customers have really desired the solutions that we offer which is an engineered nip.
And so fundamentally what we do with the SMART Roll technology which is the automation and sensor software program we match the clothing the roll covering and we have diagnostic information for the paper makers to optimize the cost and quality of the paper.
The SMART Roll becomes the first sensor in the machine.
And so what the SMART Roll offers the papermaker is the ability to optimize their cost and quality to achieve competitive outcomes.
So this tough market has been favorable to the solution provider to us.
So we've grown at 3x the market here during this environment.
The investments that Cliff alluded to in non-paper and in other geographic regions where we have been weak are yet to help us.
So you're correct in your assessment that "Hey you're already growing at 3% doing what you're doing with no benefit from the spending and you're doing extra things are you going to have a higher number than 3%?" Well that's -- I was actually going to do it in 2 parts.
One is just on the non-paper side but then -- but also you just tackled the other part which I saw on the slide.
You're shifting your footprint enough that hey you're probably going to be growing faster because Asia is growing faster.
Is that also a fair assessment? Yes Asia is...
Your product is better you're targeting a new thing and you're shifting your geographic.
All of that take those 3 things together and one can assume that the maybe that 3% number in growth internally is a higher number internally.
You might not guide to it right now but internally you might have a higher number.
Right.
So our global revenue model is for revenue growth in the Americas revenue growth in Asia revenue stability in Europe.
If you look at our mix of products and that being roll covering technology machine clothing mechanical services.
And that mix of products is going to -- we have plans to achieve those outcomes in those geographies.
With regards to non-paper it is a part of our story.
But certainly our combination of our 3% and then being able to engineer a nip it's very attractive it's catching on with the global market share leader.
It's machine automation.
It's not clothing it's not rolls.
It's rolls and clothing optimized together.
And the papermakers desire that.
And they're really looking for solutions to be competitive and lower their cost per ton and have better service property in 2 side businesses.
So that we have a strategy globally.
And so we have a revenue growth corporate model based upon that.
And our customers really want 2 -- at least 2 strong suppliers in each of these core product categories.
And we're the #2 guy in all of them more or less.
And so we have a natural pull to be bigger.
So yes I think you can say it's share gain if you will because we have been growing faster than the market.
And it's primarily expense of small niche players who can't offer total solutions.
So we do expect that to continue.
Yes you're correct that we committed to these projects internally with IRRs and paybacks.
And if you add those onto what we've done yes you could come up with a stretch figure.
Your logic is correct.
Okay.
The final question I have again it shows perhaps -- you do it on a different slide but I think it shows best on 8 because there are various growth rates for containerboard linerboard medium box board.
Is there any particular hole in your product offerings that you want to fill such that you can participate in the greater growth segments? Yes.
We have not had a very high market share in Tissue globally looking backwards.
And we had a key product efficiency there in the eyes of some of our customers with regards to having a TAD product.
And TAD stands for through-air-drying and it really has to do with the high-bolt high-caliber tissue product that has -- that are at the high end and the most profitable segment in the tissue maker amongst the tissue makers: the towels paper tissues napkins sanitary products.
And we have a great product and we've been working on it for 2 years.
It's better than is available in the current market.
Our same strength is tests out higher than others.
We're just rolling out that product now.
That is an enabling event.
That is an enabling event because many of our tissue customers are very focused on that specific topic.
And for them to be able to have a excellent TAD product really they're substituting air for fiber it's the ultimate payback.
And we have had a product that wasn't so good and we had a focused effort on it.
Bill Butterfield our head of R&amp;D has been very focused on it personally.
We've been through trials.
We're rolling it out now.
We have a great product there and we expect a much stronger presence globally in tissue from that product.
Secondarily Asia in general has been an area where we struggled in press felts because we've supplied the market outside-in predominantly for the high-end products.
So Ba Cheng is more important than just the economics of the plant.
It is an enabler and it allows us to get that high service requirement for the mill in China and Asia to be able to be competitive on a day-to-day basis.
If there's an emergency requirement today on some of the high-end press felts we're not the best we're not the best choice.
So that feeling of that capability as a supplier is an enabling event for us.
So I'd say press felts or high-end press felts are a big deal for us in Tissue globally.
And with me in the room here I have my -- I have my presidents and I have my staff.
If you wouldn't mind I'd get some flavor also I have my president with me of Europe and North America Dave Pretty.
Dave would you add any comments there? Yes thank you Harold.
Harold highlighted the TAD application in the growing segment globally on Tissue.
But more importantly in the packaging grades in the GDP grades we've also launched a product for shoe press applications.
This is another key advantage that gives us a complete portfolio of products to service the Packaging segment.
We've also got a new product that's launched and we've actually got a trial running right now on a key Tissue machine here in North America.
But we've got SMART Roll technology embedded in suction roll applications which will really change the way that our papermakers our tissue makers our packaging grade manufacturer can manage their machines and improve their output and optimization of those machines through automation of the rolls.
So we're doing a lot on that front.
It's a very exciting moment for us and then finally from the standpoint of mechanical services we continue to invest and upgrade in that so that our customer base has a one-stop-shop opportunity for servicing of rolls roll services metal work mechanical service work and overall work.
So those are some exciting areas for us that completes -- those are just a few of the many products that are completing the segment.
To the right to me I have Paul Wang who's the new president of Asia.
And I think he'll add some further color to it as well.
Thank you Dave.
In Asia we are fortunately in the largest and the production and as well as consumption and market.
Just to give you the number the RESI's the most recent update for the 2014 Asia is projected to grow to 3.5% China is project to grow to 4.5%.
And Europe-Asia is of course growing with the market.
But we are not stopping there.
As Harold and Cliff had just mentioned we are putting the money into our existing full plant to expand the throughput as well as the other capability to more diversify the product.
And most important is that we are putting money into a greenfield plant the Ba Cheng that enable us to -- the more robust supply chain as well as the value creation to the high-end the press felts the product and the customers.
Internal management probably worthwhile to mention that I and the whole management team in Asia right now are in Asia.
We are working with our Asian team every day.
We speak the same language and we are there feeling the pulse of the market as well as the need of the customer.
So that enable us to work with the customers intimately [ph] to understand what they need and to devise a solution.
So with all this particularly just trying to elaborate what Harold just said we're trying to grow Asia but it's not just growing on volume.
What do we have approach to our customer in Asia it provides focus and value proposition to the target customer in Asia to help them win in the increase competitive market.
And thanks to the Xerium multiple platforms the roll products the service as well as the machine clothing we're enable to design the solution to the customer to make them win.
And with that I will forward to our president for the fiber cement and nonwoven Steve Johnson.
Yes thank you Paul.
John Steve Johnston here General Manager and Vice President for Specialty Products and that is defined as our revenue diversification.
Specific to a couple of questions you had regarding fiber cement which falls in the building products category and also nonwovens we're extremely bullish on these 2 markets.
And I'll tell you why.
Number one we offer the complete complimentary of products which are rolls to the fabrics.
These are not necessarily new markets for us but they're trending markets for us.
And we're going to continue to gain market share through the competition and we're also going to continue to gain market share through the growth rates.
And these are projected growth rates that are very strong.
Obviously we mentioned 5.4% in nonwovens globally.
That's great news for the market but it's better news for us because we have what I call bearing market share within all 4 regions meaning North America; South America; Europe Middle East and Africa which is what we call the EMEA region; and in Asia.
If you look at the projected growth within nonwovens Asia accounts for 41% of the opportunity; followed by Europe Middle East Africa 31%; and then followed by North America 21%; and then followed by South America 7%.
Again as I mentioned we have varying levels of market share.
And the good news is we're attacking this front and we have nowhere to go but up.
So we feel like we have the right products we have the right resources we're going to continue to add capacity expansion we already produce in South America Europe North America.
We're going to continue to expand that.
Obviously our sights were set on Asia long term.
We look to have this market fortified with the resources the products and again the right attitude going forward.
So nonwovens is very very high on our list.
So we expect and in a very aggressive plan I don't know if I can share the exact numbers but as we're budgeting for the next 5 6 years is going to well exceed the 5.4%.
And yes we are talking double-digit numbers.
On fiber cement which falls in building products there's also things like glass mat again a product mix that we have been involved in for a number of years.
And we have some very strong market share today.
But we're still bullish on that.
And the reason we're bullish on that is because as you look at it again as we mentioned the Asia front there are markets that we've tackled that were very mature North America Europe there's still room for growth there.
South America is an emerging market in fiber cement that's actually quite large.
And the Asia market is wide open.
We are attacking that.
Just in the last 3 years we gained significant market share.
So worldwide we are very confident in our approach but we're also bullish in the market because there's upside.
Why? Fiber cement is a great option the final products the stucco the brick obviously for many number of attributes.
So we see that market gaining share and not just in North America but in all regions.
So again these are part of the revenue diversification that we are very high on.
So...
Okay.
John we gave you kind of a rundown there in all your questions and hopefully that added in some...
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer of Pressprich.
I don't know if I could ask as many questions as John but I just had one big picture type question maybe you could help us understand.
You gave a lot of growth opportunities over the next few years.
I know you guys are spending a lot of money to grow and invest in China et cetera.
Can you give us some kind of idea over the next 2 to 3 4 years what you think you can do in terms of EBITDA? Well we do have a base business model that is EBITDA growth.
So we are intending to continue growing our top line above the market and growing our bottom line faster than that with -- coupled with additional cost-out actions.
We have a few big big cost-out actions we haven't tackled yet.
I think at this point in time if you look at our trends as a team it's now muscle we know how to do it.
And so our handicap and our risk management internally gets around ordering intakes of activities.
And we haven't committed to a long-term plan publicly yet.
We're working towards that.
We do have a big conference coming up at Jefferies.
We're in the Jefferies Global Conference coming up and we're preparing our comments for that.
But I would just say Adam right now we can't be numerical.
I can just tell you that we do have plans to grow that top line at least as well as we have been and we think gets higher.
And then also the bottom line will grow faster than that due to that flow through which is very good.
Our variable contribution margins are over 50% in the company.
So we get a very nice flow through.
We've put in place capacity to grow sales that will cover multiple years.
So we placed our bets now.
These programs that Cliff covered we've placed our bets.
And so now the monkey is on our back if you will to go through and fill great commercial pipelines we need and fill up that capacity over a multiyear period.
And so we have enabled ourselves to grow faster and that will last several periods.
So we don't need to spend that amount of money every year.
We put in more than one year's worth of extra capacity.
The bottom line we want to continue along the trend path we've been on you can look at the percentages.
So we're not done yet.
You should expect strong bottom line performance from this team.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Weiss of DSW Investment.
Just a couple of quick questions.
On your last conference call you mentioned that the declining segment of the industry was about 23%.
I guess that would be the news print and printing and writing papers settlement was 23%.
Correct.
I was just wondering if you could say where you are relative to that overall market? In terms of what share we have of those segments? In terms of what percentages of your revenue? Do we have it Cliff? It got to be similar.
I mean we're pretty even handed market participant globally.
I have my team with me here as you can hear.
Dave I don't think we would depart from that.
We don't track that data internally crisply.
I would just say within our range we're going to be very close to that.
We have our fair share globally.
But ...
We haven't had a skewed strategy into it or out of it looking back.
Okay.
And then you gave the number of $25 million in cost savings based on the restructuring initiatives this year.
So I assume that would be realized in full in 2015.
And I guess my question then is how much -- what's the offset on that in terms of cost inflation on SG&amp;A and I know you have...
The biggest component of our inflation would be in salaries and overall it's about a $6 million increase year-over-year for inflation that we track.
So that's been the experience the last few years.
About a $6 million inflation bill.
And I would add onto that that primarily our inflation is by contract.
Most of our workforces are unionized and we entered into contract bargaining agreements with them.
So it's largely nondiscretionary.
Now does that mean that of that $25 million you actually get to keep $18 million something in that area or is there some additional cost inflation? Yes that's right.
I mean we're aiming at a net improvement.
With that and we obviously have medical contemplations and other things we're taking into account here.
But we're looking at a net number like that yes.
Okay.
So it's a pretty substantial EBITDA improvement.
And then on your pension is there any thoughts to freezing your pension at this point.
Our -- not at this point.
We've terminated some of the plans but at this point in time we don't have any expectations of doing anything as far as doing paying those pensions off.
We're focused on debt reduction.
And our North American pensions are part of our collective bargaining agreements.
Adam I'm sorry one another point.
The North American plants are frozen at this point but terminating them is something that we look at as we go forward with glide path forming obligations.
And we also measure that against paying down the traditional bank debt and bonds.
So it's part of our overall cash flow management plan as we go forward.
Sorry the North American are frozen but the European plants are not is that the status? Europe? Yes yes.
And what -- I don't think you break them out in the Ks.
What's the relative size of the 2 plans if you could say? U.S.
and Canada is about 1/2 and European plans are about the other half of the obligations.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Bobby Jones individual investor.
I think you've provided a lot of detail.
I just had a couple of clean-up questions.
Can you just expand on your CapEx investment framework in terms of IRR and payback? I heard you mentioned that you view investments through those lenses.
So it might help to give us a sense for where you're ahead that in terms of what your hurdle rates are? Very good.
So thank you it's a good question.
We have a maintenance CapEx spend right -- maintenance of business and maintenance of plant.
We do have aged [ph] assets amongst our 27 plants.
And that varies a little bit due to fix and break.
It's going to range between $12 million and $15 million a year.
And that's just part of this company.
We have a maintenance number.
Then beyond that it's totally discretionary.
And then it's a balance between how much you want to spend growing and repositioning into growth markets and how much do you want to spend on non-revenue cost take out kind of actions.
And we've tried to remain balanced.
You can see that the numbers are skewed a little bit towards growth here when we've given them because it's been size of building -- size and amount of dollars required to build a retail plan.
With state-of-the-art machinery in the right spot.
So the Ba Cheng investment was definitely a strategic decision to put the right plant at the rights spot.
It could've been done cheaper and at a cheaper place but it's the right plant right spot right equipment and right people.
So that is a very specific thing right? So we don't have a lot of those because we don't do those every year.
And the capacity we're bringing on will last several years if you look at our plants.
And we're -- as Paul said in his comments when he was answering the questions from John we have a targeted program and we're targeting customers who value what we do.
So we're not indiscriminate with what we're going after.
We're going for high-fee machines get value what we're offering and it takes back as our customers to engage with us and implement our solutions.
So on a go forward basis I've mentioned a couple of times to Melissa earlier in this talk when she was asking kind of on a go forward CapEx amount.
We do foresee some lumpiness the same kind of level of spending because we're not done yet.
There's areas of the world that are growing within Asia there's parts of Asia growing in addition to China.
There is parts of emerging Europe that are growing and there's parts of emerging Latin and South America that's growing.
So if you stand back from the picture and look at what part of world is growing there's a couple of spots in the world where we don't have pins on the map.
And so as a team strategically we've debated through the ordering of these things and where do we have natural path customer pull where do we have references in essence where are we wanted where it will be hard where it will be difficult.
So we've ordered and take these activities.
And so I really think you should expect us to spend around what we're doing this year $45 million $50 million with $10 million to $15 million being largely just maintenance and nondiscretionary and the rest being discretionary and balance between growth pins on the map and cost-out activities in some of the mature markets that are under pressure.
And is there any kind of targeted return on investment that as shareholders we should expect or just kind of wrap our heads around? I think you could -- it's safe to say that we are -- we have signed up for contemporary paybacks and we know where our cost of capital is and we know what's not dilutive and we know what's accretive.
And overall obviously we're trying to increase the return on invested capital here.
And I would add that we -- as we go through the process we compare various projects and obviously we're choosing those projects that position us best and have the greatest return to the company.
We don't really want to give a specific number Bobby.
I very much appreciate that.
And then in terms of the debt structure in light of your operational performance which has been great in the interest rate environment which is pretty accommodative any plans on attacking some cost savings in terms of the debt structure? Well our -- we do have debt that is callable but they're significant premiums.
And if you look at the reality of that our overall debt model and cash flow model has been based upon heavy upfront investments to reposition our plants our people our activities into forward-looking growth opportunities to consolidate some of the legacy positions that we've had.
We've consolidated almost half of our plants in North America.
We've consolidated 30% of our plants in South America.
We consolidated 30% of our plants in Europe.
And we're adding to our productive capacity in plants in Asia.
And so that has cost money to do.
The industry has needed to reposition itself.
We have -- some of our peers have done that some haven't.
We've done our fair part to consolidate the industry.
Our customers are consolidating in certain areas.
And we have to do that with them.
And our customers are expanding and growing in certain areas and we have to do that too.
So we -- on repricing our bank debt or calling our bonds and putting them out very specific things that you're alluding to they're not on our radar screen right now.
Cliff and his team monitor these at all times it costs money to do them.
It hasn't hit our radar screen to spend the amount of money that it takes to do that in lieu of the value creating EBITDA sales growth opportunities that we have in front of us.
And we've chosen to just kind of run at free cash flow mutual and not run off debt as we've repositioned.
Going forward we'll have more flexibility.
And so we have significant pay-down -- debt pay-down in there and if it was a different time and set of circumstances we might be attacking our capital structure right now.
But it would require us to kind of go under water if you will on debt and cash flow and accounting we're just -- we have a self-imposed rule not to do that so we're just choosing not to do that Bobby.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then I guess last question I have just because nobody else asked or maybe I just don't know.
But what was with the pre-announcement? I mean I very much appreciated it when it's good news it's great to see it early.
I wonder if there's any rationale behind that? We were just trying to be more proactive with investor relations.
We are trying to put helpful information out there.
We also knew we wanted to get people to read the announcement because we were going to put out a slide show and we wanted to get people to make sure they had to come to our website and look at it and be ready.
So no particular reason.
We just decided we're trying to be more proactive.
We're not covered much by sell-side analysts and so we're trying to do our own in investment relations.
So we feel we've had a great quarter and we've had a great couple of years of trend.
And there is really no specific reason.
At this time there are no additional questions in the queue.
And I would like to turn the call back over for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Very good.
Thank you.
For those of you who are still on the phone we appreciate your calling in this morning and ask us a lot of questions about the company.
We're proud of what we've done and we're excited about our future.
And we're very confident about the second half of this year.
And we're confident with the programs we have.
If you have any further questions or inputs regarding the slides please send them in to Cliff.
We'll try to listen and accommodate and give you the insight you need to be a fan of our company invest and understand what we're doing.
So with that operator I'd like to end the call for this session.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Xerium Technologies Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katina and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please proceed.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2014 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will start the discussion this morning and then Cliff will provide further financial details with respect to the quarter results.
Subsequently we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter and year-to-date periods were made available with the filing of our 10-Q after the market closed on Monday November 3 2014 and were also announced in the press release issued after the filing of the 10-Q.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I would also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2014.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today November 4 2014 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in the additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review our third quarter results.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights.
Q3 2014 sales increased 3.4% over Q3 2013 and 0.6% over Q2 2014 on a constant currency basis.
North America sales improved by 8.7% over the prior year's third quarter.
Asia and South America sales both showed strong results as Asia grew 4.3% and South America grew 12.4% compared to Q3 2013.
European sales remained sluggish in the quarter and were off by 4.9% compared to Q3 2013.
Roll sales improved 12.6% over Q3 2013 and 5.2% over Q2 2014 while machine clothing sales were down 1.5% compared to the prior year's third quarter and down 1.2% compared to Q2 of 2014.
Q3 2014 adjusted EBITDA increased as a result of improved sales and strong cost reduction.
Q3 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $31.5 million.
This was an increase of $4.3 million or 15.8% versus Q3 2013 and is primarily driven by a steady sales market and strong cost reduction.
Cost reduction added $6.9 million in adjusted EBITDA in Q3 2014.
At this time I'd like to refer you to the business update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
On Page 3 of the slide deck we have summarized some key takeaways regarding the current state of our business.
Sales remained at healthy levels and have risen at a 3.3% constant -- cumulative average growth rate CAGR since the beginning of 2012 which is above overall market growth.
We continue to see expansion [Audio Gap] and lower our SG&amp;A spending as these measures have improved at 6.0% and 6.3% CAGR since the beginning of 2012.
You can clearly see the impact of our restructuring and cost containment initiatives are having on our business.
Looking forward Xerium has also been busy investing in the future.
While some of our investments have paid back fairly quickly we have also invested in some longer-payback projects.
In fact from 2013 through 2015 we expect to spend approximately $68 million on 10 separate long-lead time projects.
The first of these projects the installation of -- from a new DILO needling machine and the expansion of our mechanical services operation in Ruston Louisiana were recently completed and will begin to have payback beginning in the fourth quarter of this year.
Our longest lead time investment is the construction of a new press felt plant in Ba Cheng China and that will begin production in the second half of 2015.
At this time I'd like to provide an overview of the current status of our markets and our plans for the future.
Please turn to Page 4 on the slide deck and this presents paper production year-to-date through July compared to 2013.
It's important to note that while the overall market grew 0.3% there is real divergence in regional and grade-specific growth rates.
In addition quarter-to-quarter production volumes can vary which drives quarter-to-quarter volatility in the sales of paper machine clothing and roll cover producers like Xerium.
Page 5 of the slide deck includes year-to-date growth at July 2014 versus July '13 and it does vary by grade within each of our regions.
The North American region is having a tough year.
But having said that it's also evident that large segments of the global paper markets such as containerboard are healthy and continue to grow.
Xerium is well positioned to navigate changing market demand both regionally and by paper grade.
Asian market growth and Asian sales continue to be a bright spot for Xerium as well.
Q3 2014 Asia sales grew 4.3% on a constant currency basis compared to the same quarter in the prior year which we believe is in line with market growth in the region.
The company has stated it's building a new plant in Ba Cheng China to make high-end press felts to continue growing in this area.
Construction is underway and the plant is expected to hit run rate output in the second quarter of 2016.
In addition capacity in our China roll plants had been expanded during this quarter with the arrival and installation of equipment transferred from our previously closed rolls plants in Europe.
Now I'll turn the call over to Cliff Pietrafitta for his insights into our financial performance.
Thank you Harold.
Our order pattern as presented on Slide 6 remains strong with orders down in Q3 compared to Q2 but in line with seasonal expectations.
The company has a healthy backlog going into Q4 2014.
Next I would like to direct you to Slide 7.
Constant currency net sales have grown approximately 3.3% over the last 2.5 years.
This growth rate is above market growth of 1% to 2% and we expect that trend to continue as our growth initiatives play out over time.
Constant currency roll net sales increased by 12.6% from Q3 2013 primarily driven by an increase in North America South America and Asia.
These increases were partially offset by decline in Europe.
Constant currency machine clothing sales decreased slightly by 1.5% from Q3 2013 primarily driven by a decrease in Europe and North America.
These decreases were partially offset by increases in South America and Asia.
Moving to Slide 8.
Gross margins improved to 40% in Q3 2014 from 39.5% in Q3 2013.
Largely as a result of our cost-out initiatives and operational excellence programs our gross margins have improved 540 basis points over the last 2.5 years.
In our clothing segment gross margins increased 0.3% to 40.9% in the current quarter compared to 40.6% in the third quarter of 2013 as a result of restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by inflation.
In our roll covers segment gross margins increased by 1% to 38.5% for the 3 months ended September 30 2014 from 37.5% for the 3 months ended September 30 2013.
This increase is primarily due to restructuring savings and operational efficiencies partially offset by decreased gross margins as a result of higher sales of products and services with lower gross margins.
SG&amp;A expenses presented on Slide 9 have improved 6.3% over the last 2.5 years primarily as a result of actions taken to rightsize the company's cost structure.
For the 3 months ended September 30 2014 SG&amp;A expenses decreased $0.7 million or 2% to $34.2 million in the third quarter of 2014 from $34.9 million in the third quarter of 2013 primarily as a result of headcount reduction restructuring savings and decreased management incentive compensation.
These decreases were partially offset by increased selling commissions on higher sales volume and inflationary increases primarily in salaries in Q3 2014 compared to the prior year.
Xerium's adjusted EBITDA trend as presented on Slides 10 and 11 evidences the impact of our restructuring efforts and operational cost reduction programs.
On a quarterly basis we have seen a 21.6% improvement over the last 2.5 years and on a trailing 12 month basis we have seen a 13.5% increase since the end of 2012.
Adjusted EBITDA in Q3 2014 was $31.5 million or 22.7% of net sales and was 15.8% above Q3 2013 adjusted EBITDA of $27.2 million or 20.1% of net sales.
These improvements are primarily driven by increased net sales and gross margins and our cost-out and restructuring initiatives.
Our adjusted earnings per share presented on Slide 12 which is defined as earnings per share adjusted for restructuring charges the Brazil tax amnesty charge losses on debt extinguishment inventory write-offs of closed plants currency losses and other nonrecurring items such as our former CEO retirement expenses was $0.43 per share in Q3 of 2014 up 19% from $0.36 per share in Q3 2013 which is driven by increased sales higher gross margins and cost-reduction initiatives.
On a trailing 12-month basis at September 30 2014 our adjusted earnings per share was $1.73 per share an increase of 40% over $1.24 per share at September 30 2013.
These improvements are primarily driven by increased net sales and gross margins and again our cost-out and restructuring initiatives.
The company's leadership team has implemented strategic programs to realize both sales growth and cost reductions.
In fact we initiated 36 programs in 2014 with another set of programs ready to commence once the current programs are accomplished.
Specifically as presented on Slide 13 and Slide 14 these programs include: 17 primary new product programs including 11 machine clothing programs 4 rolls and service programs and 2 SMART machine automation programs; and 10 primary growth capacity programs including 2 new plants and 8 plant expansions; and 9 primary cost programs including but not limited to plant closures operational excellence programs and many machine upgrades across various plants.
In summary as presented on Slide 15 our markets are large.
Our sales have grown faster than the underlying market over the last 2.5 years and we have an attractive list of sales growth programs underway.
However our markets have shown volatility from quarter to quarter and will likely continue to do so.
Lastly Xerium's results are trending up in sales gross margins and earnings and we expect to achieve our adjusted EBITDA guidance of $116 million to $120 million in 2014 with the major risks being foreign currency and Q4 sales volatility including year-end actions taken by our customers.
We are also investing in the future growth of our business by introducing new products and investing in assets to increase capacity and fuel sales growth.
Thank you Cliff.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready for questions.
Katina may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic representing Sidoti &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Could you talk a little bit about the non-paper market how much of sales derived from those markets? And just going forward how do you see this? The non-paper markets that we primarily pursue are fiber cement industry which is building products; nonwoven production which covers a lot of the industries with nonwoven fabric production; and industrial rolls where we sell our rolls and service offerings in 2 markets other than pulp and paper.
They're doing fine.
The growth -- they're GDP more types of businesses so they're tied into local market stories.
Both the fiber cement and nonwoven industries are primarily not North American businesses.
They're bigger.
80% -- roughly 80% of those markets are outside of the U.S.
and they're doing great.
Our actions to pursue them have to do with product development.
We had to improve our products' performances as well as specific capacity that we put in to make those products.
Industrial rolls is a little closer to our current machinery profile.
We had to add a bit of capability there.
Overall the businesses have been -- and mechanical services is also one of the areas that we view as a non-paper diversification move for us in sales.
And overall that's about 10% of our sales.
And we have a multiyear plan.
We have a 6-year plan to grow that business as a percentage of our total.
And as I mentioned it had precursor needs to both improve product performance and to get capacity in the right places.
So primarily the benefits that we expect from non-paper are yet to happen and we're putting in place what we needed to to get trials in product performance this year.
So you should expect in the future that we would get bigger benefit.
Answering your question a little bit more specifically in closing [ph] nonwoven industry right now is weak in Europe due to the GDPs in those areas.
Fiber cement's heavily tied into global construction primarily outside of the U.S.
and again that's been impacted a little bit by the GDP pictures around.
But steady state these are -- these market's going to grow around 5% 6% 7%.
And all the third-party data suggest that and we're building our plans around that.
Inc.</strong> So I saw in the 10-Q that you expect the capital expenditure for this year to be around $53 million.
What about going into next year? I know you mentioned there are further projects you're looking at.
How could we look at that? Yes I'll let Cliff take that one.
Sure.
Katja we -- you're right.
We are expecting to spend $53 million in capital expenditures this year.
We expect over the next couple of years to spend about the same amount as we see some opportunities to really turn on the profitability of the business.
Over time we do expect that we'll gradually decrease the spend and we do think -- if you're getting to the cash flow question and how we expect to deal with debt over the course of time we expect that by the end of 2020 we'll cut the debt in half.
But we do expect that we have like I said great opportunities to improve our capital spending and to improve the efficiency on the balance sheet and in the earnings.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer representing Pressprich.
Just a couple of questions nothing -- just in any kind of order here.
But did you guys have a chance to listen to the Albany call? I know it was at 9.
Do you have any -- an opportunity to do that? We did.
Okay.
What I'm -- I mean it was glaringly to me that you guys said South America grew 12%.
Albany's South American business was down 10%.
They attributed that mainly to Brazil.
Why do you think you guys are outperforming them so much down in South America? Well we have different product mixes.
They have a very strong complete product portfolio.
Our product development plans are anchored around completing our product portfolio to be the same breadth but they're a clear leader in the South American and Brazilian pulp industry where that's not a big market for us.
So I would suspect it's temporary number one.
And number two it has to do with their strengths versus our strengths.
If you look at the summary comments that were made by Joe basically they alluded to the temporary nature of it also given that they've had good orders and are sticking to their guidance.
And each of us has different customers so there might be a little bit of customer quarter-to-quarter lumpiness there.
But overall I'm sure they see what we see which is a healthy market that's growing some pushes and pulls as the global pulp industry moves a little bit.
The pulp industry in South America and Brazil is huge compared to the global market so that market is skewed toward -- maybe 35% to 40% of the available business to us and Albany and others is tied into that type of production and that production is a global commodity and it's an export business for Brazil.
So I think Adam it's temporary.
It has to do with individual mixes but at the paper machine level I think we're probably very close to exactly the same.
Got it okay.
And they reiterated their outlook for Q4 strong orders starting to see strong shipments at the end of this quarter.
Are you guys seeing the same thing going into Q4? Yes we are.
Their remarks -- I guess the simple thing to say is we support everything they said.
We see almost the same things.
Their puts and takes are a little bit different but the -- year-to-date if you look at our performance in rolls and clothing of our regions the year kind looks like we thought it would but the orders are dissimilar to what we thought.
They're lumpy.
And we had strong orders also in this quarter going into the fourth quarter.
And like Cliff said we're reiterating our guidance as well for the full year because we have strong shipments out of the plants right now and strong incoming order rate to the business.
So it's going to be a little bit stronger end of the year than last year we think.
Okay.
Sounds good.
In terms of gross margins I mean you guys are still lagging them by a couple of hundred basis points.
Do you have any longer-term targets? Do you think you could pick up those -- that extra 2% or maybe even better over the next couple of years? Yes they -- we lag them by 1 point.
In machine clothing they're at 42% gross margin.
We're at 41%.
And they definitely have a larger percentage of their production in low-cost countries than we do.
They have 2 low-cost plants in China 1 in Korea 1 in Mexico.
We're building our first in China.
We have a multiyear plan of our own that fits us that mixes our production towards low cost and short lead times.
It's going to take us a few years to get there but we definitely have plans to close that gap and eliminate it.
Also for us we have a big rolls and service business and the forward look for that business is equally as exciting.
We're putting new dots on the map.
The service business in addition to being tied into production of pulp and paper is also tied into a secular trend to outsource those services to specialists like us.
And we've broadened our service portfolio and we're building a brand-new plant in Corlu Turkey and we have plans to put other service plants into new locations.
And we're expanding service locations that we have like the Ruston Virginia -- excuse me Ruston Louisiana expansion we just completed to do more suction box repair in mechanical services.
So on the mechanical services side and rolls side which is a part of our diversification strategy we're already seeing some uplift from that primarily due to a secular trend that relies upon others to do it.
It all boils down to machines that need to run and need repairing and so we see a lot of opportunities there.
And the market is solid in Q4.
We have plenty of orders on both sides of our business.
And as far as getting our costs aligned and closing the gap versus them that's a clothing-to-clothing comparison.
And rolls we really don't have a proper comparable but we have a plan also to improve the gross margin in that business as well.
Okay.
So just -- I know you started a little bit later than them so it's just going to take some time.
Have you ever discussed ultimately what your China plant can do in EBITDA when it's at a full run rate? We have a multiyear plan.
So we bought -- we have the rights to land.
It's triple the size of our current construction building.
So we're building on 1/3 of the parcel right now and that whole project is -- the spend over a 2-year period is going to be about $40 million.
And we have not set the EBITDA that we expect from it.
It's pretty close to double digits so I can tell you that and -- or 8 figures.
And so the benefit is both cost reduction of existing business we already have as well as participating in the growth in the market.
If you look at that market it's growing huge and it's a big number that's growing.
So we don't really need to gain -- take share from anybody.
We just need to participate in growth that's underway with customers we already have and that's our base plan.
But we have a multiyear plan there.
So we have plans to build out all 3 parcels of that property and spend similar amounts over time so that we have a low-cost production capability in each of our product lines.
So it's a multiyear project Adam.
We're doing Phase 1 and we're not going to launch Phase 2 until Phase 1's performing.
So it's going to be a performance-based timing on whether -- on when we do it.
But the cost of each piece is about the same.
Okay.
So basically what you're saying and correct me if I'm saying it wrong is you think it could do at least $10 million of EBITDA which is 8 figures by my math.
You're also saying you won't launch Phase 2 until this plant is at run rate which you said earlier would be Q2 of '16.
Is that correct? Well that was a production comment.
When I -- my comment was -- we have a target cost per kilogram in mind for the plant.
And so that's a maturity issue on the plant performance and so we need to see that the plant is trending toward its target cost per unit.
And it's possible that you could be at your target output but not at your target cost per unit.
So yes we have plans to for them to coincide but the real deal here is we need the plant to make it at its target cost and quality level and so we have a few operating metrics that we're going to be looking at that will guide us to when it's time to distract that team with another project.
Got it.
Okay I understand.
We want them focused on producing Phase 1.
Good.
What about Corlu Turkey? Is that a similar-type investment and returns? Maybe I missed that in the past.
Is that something you also see the opportunity there? It's huge for us.
The investment's quite a bit lower though because the plant that we closed in Heidenheim Germany we basically have all the machinery we need virtually all the machinery we need for that plant.
So the cost is really the building.
And the building we did a build pursuit there and we're going to rent -- we're going to go capital lease on the building and we're going to move equipment we already have into it.
So we're going to lease the building.
We're going to move equipment we already have into it and we're going to hit the ground running.
So that one will be much more capital-efficient.
And of course it's a rolls and service plant.
It's not a clothing plant.
So the capital intensity is much less in the rolls business but the return on capital employed in the rolls business is better.
And so that will give us a foot in the door to also get clothing sales in the region given that we'll be a local provider.
And it's going to be a lower a lot lower CapEx for us.
Okay.
When do you expect that to get ramped up? I have with me Dave Pretty who's in charge of that project.
Dave the timing for the Corlu Turkey plant? Yes Harold the timing is -- we're looking at the second quarter of '15 for a segment of the service and grinding.
And then the rubber and polyurethane will wrap in through the third and fourth quarter of next year.
Okay.
I mean is this another potential 8-figure type return like China? No that one's going to be less.
And I want to correct a mistake that I made Adam.
It's going to be an operating lease not a capital lease.
But if you look at the rolls business rolls and service business it's a local business.
The rolls themselves weigh up to 80 tons.
That will be an 80-ton plant.
And these products don't travel well.
They're very expensive.
And so that business is never going to be like our Ba Cheng plant where you can build the items and export them easily in a little box to destinations around Asia.
This is different.
Rolls is a local business and it's about being locally competitive.
And so the sales and EBITDA out of the rolls plant is going to be an order of magnitude less than clothing.
So the way to get $10 million in rolls is to have a few plants.
The way to get $10 million in clothing is to have a really good big plant.
Got it okay.
And last question and I'll stop annoying you guys.
In terms of valuation management execution it seems like you guys have done an excellent job.
Everything you've said you've come through.
It looks like the future appears pretty bright.
But the stock is still trading at lower prices and valuations than it was beginning of this year.
Is there anything you guys can do besides talking at conferences telling the story that could potentially narrow that and get the stock to where possibly is a better value? If you look -- we've looked at that in a lot of different ways on the average daily flows and average daily trading value.
And we have some good partners that are on the phone today and some are on the phone that have bought the stock to hold it and look for good capital appreciation.
And then we have not a lot of daily float.
So I think Adam at least the pressure we're trying to build is just by performing very well and saying what we're going to do and do what we say so that it looks like a good buying opportunity and we get new people that want to buy the stock because it looks cheap relative to other opportunities they have.
But that's -- we are going to keep going to conferences yes and we're going to the ones that we're invited to and saying our sales pitch.
And we've also done some roadshows where we go one-on-one but we're not doing a lot of it.
We don't intend to do more of it.
We're kind of busy running the company.
So we're doing as much as we think is appropriate and we're trying to let our numbers be strong and to create the urge to buy by people that are watching the figures and willing to pay it.
That's it.
I know that it sounded basic but that is what we're doing Adam.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of John Koerber representing Xerium.
Well I don't know that I'm representing Xerium.
I think I'm representing Bennett Management.
A question I had is -- you made some allusion to your desire to pay down debt and that within a period -- by 2020 you'd have cut the debt in half.
Do you anticipate in 2015 that you will be paying down debt? And if so how much do you think that will be? And this question comes -- obviously you made a decision to settle Brazil this year and you borrowed on your facility in order to do that.
That's good decision.
But what do you think you will be doing in 2015 in terms of debt repayment? Well I'm going to answer half and I'm going to turn the half of it to Cliff our CFO.
We do want to pay our debt down.
We have a 6-year plan to do that by 2020 as Cliff mentioned to pay off about half of it.
If you look at the short-term midterm long-term kind of a look at this our near-term goal has been to be cash flow-neutral and to spend -- to reinvest our free cash flow back into the business either through restructuring our capital investment and that's what we've done.
That was our plan.
That's what we're doing.
We still see very high ROI projects in front of us and we still see a strong ability to increase our sales and EBITDA beyond where they are.
We're not guiding flat.
We're guiding up.
And we think that we can go up over the next several years in both sales and EBITDA and profit rate and gross margin rate primarily as internal matters.
There's a pent-up amount of good projects that we have available to us and we intend to pursue them.
It will trail off as Cliff mentioned.
So as we look forward this year restructuring and capital together add up to about $70 million if you do the math there on what we spend.
That will trail down beginning next year.
So we will spend less next year and we will make more next year.
So this starts next year.
We would -- but for the Brazilian tax payment of this year we had a plan this year as well.
So order of magnitude at our current profit rate it's around $10 million to $15 million a year.
But our EBITDA is going to be increasing and so that gap will be widening.
That's how you get to bigger numbers.
So debt pay-down is a -- it is a long-term priority.
It's a midterm priority.
It's not a short-term priority.
The short-term priority is to get the fundamentals right in the business and to have foundations set up in low-cost countries for the clothing side of it and to get our service model fixed where we need some service shops in spots where we don't have them like Turkey.
And we have several others that we're talking about.
So if you look at the go-forward set of opportunities for us and what parts of the market are growing we need to mirror that and we primarily mirror half a little bit.
And so if you take a fresh look at it and say where do your service plants need to be there's a couple of open spots on the map.
And if you look at the percentage of our machine clothing its high-cost versus low-cost country production it's skewed towards high-cost.
So we see an opportunity there that's growth-neutral to take it down.
So restructuring and CapEx together they're -- we manage them together.
It's a big number.
We know that and we're going to be driving that down.
And the fact that it will be coming down and our sales day to day will be going up will lead to debt reduction.
Our leverage will improve each year in this plant short medium long.
Absolute amount of debt though will begin to come down starting next year.
Cliff any answer? I'll just add one other point.
The pay-down that we're expecting for next year is likely -- it will be in the second half of the year.
We've got to complete the Ba Cheng capital expenditure program.
We've got few other large programs that will be completed between Q4 and Q1 of next year.
So the cash generated for debt pay-down will begin second half of 2015.
With no further questions at this time I would now like to hand the call back to Mr.
Harold Bevis for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
I appreciate everyone calling in today.
We're proud of the quarter that we had here at Xerium and our year-to-date performance is as we expected.
We have good outlook going into Q4 and into next year and so we thank you for your support.
I look forward to talking to you on our next conference call.
And with that we'll end the conference call Katina.
Thank you sir.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2014 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results Conference Call on March 4 2015.
This conference call is being recorded for transcription purposes.
And now I'd like to hand over the call to Kevin McDougall EVP and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2014 fourth quarter and full year financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are Harold Bevis CEO and President of Xerium Technologies; and Cliff Pietrafitta Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will lead the discussion this morning and Cliff will discuss our 2014 financial results then we will open up the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter and full year were made available with the announcement of our 2014 results and the press release and the filing of our 10-K after the market closed on Tuesday March 3 2015.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations home page on our website at www.xerium.com.
I would also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for 2015.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Tuesday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today March 4 2015 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers is available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in an additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All of these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
And thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium's 2014 fourth quarter and full year results.
At this time I'd like to refer you to the Business Update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights from our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results.
On pages three and four of the slide deck we have summarized key highlights regarding Q4 2014 results.
And as expected our results continue to improve and strengthen.
Q4 2014 sales increased 2% over Q4 2013.
Asia sales improved by almost 6% over the prior year fourth quarter due to increased sales in China Indonesia and Korea and increased rubber cover and spreader rolls sales.
South America showed strong results as its sales grew an impressive 14% primarily as a result of increased roll covers sales and mechanical services.
In Europe sales grew 1% compared to fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to increased press belt (03:43) and forming fabric sales.
North America sales were down 1% from fourth quarter 2013 primarily as a result of the closure of the large machine clothing customer.
Roll sales improved almost 4% over the fourth quarter of 2013 and machine clothing sales improved a little over 1% compared to Q4 of 2013.
Q4 2014 gross margin was 40.3% that compared to 36.7% in the fourth quarter of 2013 which represented a 360-basis point improvement with broad based improvements across the business lines further demonstrating the benefits of our ongoing restructuring initiatives.
Machine clothing gross margin improved to 42.3% in the quarter from 38.5% in the prior fourth quarter and roll covers gross margins improved to 36.8% in the fourth quarter from a gross margin of 33.6% in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
These step change improvements were a direct result of continued cost reductions and included two plant closures in João Pessoa Brazil and Heidenheim Germany as well as incremental head count reductions and operational expense programs.
Orders remained steady and strong in the fourth quarter increasing by 1% over the fourth quarter of 2013 on a constant-currency basis and providing a solid backlog going into 2015.
Our new product and new market programs are definitely having a positive impact and we plan to continue to field more in products and increase our capacity in 2015 which we will discuss in further detail later.
We're still in the early stages of our business diversification efforts and expect this to accelerate over coming years.
Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $29.4 million.
This is an increase of $5.2 million or 21% versus the prior year's fourth quarter on a constant-currency basis.
This increase was a result of improved gross margins and strong cost reduction.
Cost reduction added $7.6 million in adjusted EBITDA and it was driven primarily by incremental head count reductions and operational excellence programs.
Lastly we began 12 new initiatives for sales growth in the quarter and cost out programs also in the quarter and we brought the total sales growth programs underway to 32 and total cost out programs to 16.
Next I'd like to turn to pages five and six.
We summarize the key highlights regarding the full year 2014 results on these two pages.
As expected we continue to see improvement.
2014 was a solid year for Xerium with sales gross margins SG&amp;A adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS all improving over the prior year driven by our 48 programs in sales growth and cost out.
In fact we had the highest adjusted EBITDA in 2014 that we have had in the last six years and we expect that to increase again in 2015.
Our sales were $543 million and that was a small increase over the prior year on a constant-currency basis with orders increasing over 2013 about 1% for the full year.
Our new product invention rates are running at all time highs and we're already seeing some new big winners.
In addition we've had several other new product programs just launching in the first quarter of 2015.
North America Asia and South America improved in the year 2014 by 1% 2% and 10% respectively primarily as a result of an increase in mechanical service and rubber sales in North America increased machine clothing sales in China Indonesia and Korea and increased machine clothing sales in South America.
Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in Europe sales of about 4% in 2014 versus 2013 which is primarily due to a sluggish economy.
Both Asia and South America had record sales years.
Adjusted EBITDA was $116 million as reported and $118.3 million on a constant-currency basis which is right in the middle of our guidance range for the year.
This was an increase of 6% over 2013 on a constant-currency basis and it was a direct result of our plant network reconfiguration and cost reduction programs which are both well underway and expected to further benefit our cost structure in 2015.
In 2014 we continued the construction of two new very important facilities for us in Ba Cheng China and in Corlu Turkey.
Both of these facilities are expected to begin production in 2015 and we expect both facilities to contribute to an increased adjusted EBITDA in 2015.
Together these two facilities will add $10 million of incremental EBITDA at run rate.
I would now like to turn the call over to Cliff to discuss our 2014 results in more detail.
Thank you Harold.
I'd like to start my comments on Slide 7.
As demonstrated by this four block slide our business is progressively moving to a higher level of performance.
Our sales growth programs are working and compare favorably to overall market trends as we have seen a 1.4% growth in sales over the last three years and we expect similar results again next year.
Our lean SG&amp;A program continues to reduce cost improving 4.7% over the last three years.
Our operational excellence programs and restructuring activities continue to improve margins with a 7.9% improvement over the last three years.
Finally adjusted EBITDA continues to benefit from higher sales and lower cost improving 14.2% over the last three years which should continue in the coming years.
Just a comment 2014 adjusted EBITDA ended at $116 million or $118.3 million on a constant-currency basis relative to our previous guidance range of $116 million to $120 million.
On Slide 8 you can see our sales grew in both segments in Q4 2014 and rolls and services outperformed machine clothing in both Q4 and for the full year of 2014.
Rolls sales results are above market and continue to be aided by our increasing efforts in mechanical services and successful new product introduction.
Moving to Slide 9 both of our operating segments are contributing in a significant way as machine clothing contributed $89.3 million to adjusted EBITDA while rolls and services contributed $41.2 million.
Slide 10 shows our Q4 and full year 2014 basic adjusted earnings per share results.
Q4 2014 basic adjusted earnings per share was $0.43 up 169% from $0.16 in Q4 of 2013.
Full year 2014 basic adjusted earnings per share was up 29% to $1.58 in 2014 from $1.23 in 2013.
Slide 11 shows 2014 adjusted EBITDA of $116 million or 21% of sales increased 6% over 2013 adjusted EBITDA on a constant-currency basis.
We have corrected the downturn trend of adjusted EBITDA which began in the latter part of 2010.
In addition adjusted EBITDA reached its highest level in six years driven exclusively by our new sales programs and cost-out programs and is expected to deliver additional growth in 2015.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Harold to provide highlights of Xerium's 2015 business plan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Cliff.
As shown on Slide 12 we expect sales to grow modestly by 0% to 1% in 2015 which is in line with market growth as graphical grades of paper decline in North America and Europe while the rest of the world continues to grow.
Should the market respond more favorably we'll be in a position to take more advantage of the debottlenecking efforts that we've made are coming on line and to improve our sales forecast for 2015.
I'd like to elaborate a little bit on the markets regionally and our sales growth activities in each region and I am going to start with handing the phone over to Dave Freddy who is the President of North America and Europe for Xerium.
Dave? European &amp; North American Divisions Xerium Technologies Inc.</strong> Thank you Harold and good morning everyone.
In the North America and European theaters of operation I can tell you that we remain motivated and excited about the opportunities in the industries we serve both in paper and non-paper.
Our fresh products portfolio and value creation platform continues to earn the trust of our customer base and it's helping to maintain our momentum and market share in the geographic regions.
While 0% to 1% sales growth may seem tepid our North American and European plans actually call for sales growth of 2.5% to 3% of sales growth with an emphasis on paper packaging tissue pulp and other non-paper markets.
Unfortunately at this time offsetting our momentum is the continued decline of both newsprint and the printing and writing grades.
We expect this to continue in the short window but let's be clear this only represents about 20% of the markets we serve – or 20% of the paper market.
Having said that we remain focused on the 80% of the market where we are currently enjoying success.
And these markets that continue to reflect future growth include paper paper packaging tissue personal hygiene pulp and other non-paper segments that include non-woven fiber cement and industrial rolls.
These segments represent real growth opportunities and are the engines of our 2.5% to 3% sales growth going forward.
Again let me underline that the 80% of the markets that we are currently chasing or serving represent real solid growth opportunities.
At this point I would like to hand the mic or the telephone over to Paul Wang President of Xerium Asia to discuss our record-setting performance in the Asian theater of operations.
Paul? Thank you Dave.
Good morning everybody.
I'm glad to be here.
I'm joining you from Ba Cheng China where the new coming facility in China and I'm 13-hour ahead of here.
For those of you that have been following the industry Asia is the highest growth and the largest market for Xerium in the world.
And currently we have multiple years investment and sales effort underway.
The key and the center point of this effort Ba Cheng our coming press belt (15:48) plant later on this year.
With the start-up of this plant we will increase our profits but probably more important is provide the products that have been much sought after by our customer in Asia.
With the leverage of Ba Cheng we believe that we will be able to continue our growth momentum in our business and increase of our EBITDA for 2015 and beyond.
On the rolls side we have finished up the upgrade of our roll facility in Asia.
Now we can be able to provide the most sophisticated roll product for our customer in Asia as well as our innovative SMART roll to our customer.
Now with both the machine closing and roll effort we have deepened and broadened our capability to create value for our customers.
Let me put all of this into perspective Xerium Asia account currently 19% of all the sale for the company which is 1% higher than a quarter earlier.
But we are situated in a market that accounts for 47% in the world and as such it's not surprise that growth of Asia – of Xerium Asia is the key and center of our transformation objective for Xerium.
With that let me hand over the phone to our President of South America Eduardo Fracasso for the record-setting year in 2014 for South America.
Eduardo? Thank you Paul.
Good morning.
I'm Eduardo Fracasso Head of South America.
And I'm speaking from my working location in Piracicaba São Paulo Brazil.
Pulp and paper is a growing industry in the region and so is Xerium.
As a market leader in South America we are taking advantage of this healthy segment.
Xerium has a solid and healthy business in the region serving customer for our plants in Brazil and Argentina.
For 2014 we foresee a growing pair (18:15) for the pulp and paper industry.
More conservative on pulp and paper but growing mainly on tissue and packaging grades.
Xerium as a machine clothing and roll service provider with the vendor results program SMART roll technology and around 60% of new products in our portfolio we continue to benefit from this growing momentum of the industry.
In 2014 we had a record year on sales in South America.
And with the expansion of our plants and the modernization of Piracicaba reaches our 4 million dryers and the press belt (19:00) reaches (19:02) we are confident on setting the stage for a strong and solid 2015.
Thank you.
Now I would like to turn over to Harold.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you.
So I hope you got a flavor there for some of our growth activities by region for being conservative with our guidance here on sales it's possible that we have some upside performance but we're being conservative primarily in Dave's region of North America and Europe with regards to the pace and magnitude of the graphical grade market decline.
Our internal efforts are much stronger but we do expect that dynamic to continue in 2015.
On EBITDA our adjusted EBITDA is expected to reach $120 million this year at constant currency rates as our new sales programs and cost out programs continue to improve our results.
Our net debt leverage is expected to decrease in 2015 as a result of both increased adjusted EBITDA and debt pay down which Cliff will describe later.
Our plant network will go through a step-change transformation this year.
And it will involve 10 plants in eight countries.
We have several multi-year programs that are going to consummate this year including our brand new two new plants two new low-cost plants in Ba Cheng China and Corlu Turkey which will start production and we will continue our asset rationalization efforts this year and next year.
And in addition we have two mechanical service plant expansions which will be completed this year one in Neenah Wisconsin and one in Griffin Georgia.
And we have four machine clothing plant expansions which will be completed this year as well one in Asahi Japan one in Kentville Nova Scotia our big program in Piracicaba Brazil and a big program in Reutlingen Germany.
Lastly our spending will begin to decrease this year and our free cash flow will begin to increase.
We're giving guidance on free cash flow of $5 million to $10 million which is a conservative range for us.
We actually have an internal plan to pay down our debt $1 a share and it will be somewhat offset by some capital leases which will all come online primarily in China which Cliff will give you the details on.
But this year will be a year where we spend about 10% less money year-over-year and begin to use that free cash flow to pay down our debt and that trend will continue and accelerate as we move forward.
Moving to Slide 13 I would like to show you a couple of the main projects and our sale – our 2015 sale growth efforts will begin to benefit from some projects that are coming on line that we've been working on spending money on and spending time ib.
These projects will support growth in paper board fiber cement non-woven and mechanical services which are the growth areas of the market which Dave Pretty alluded to.
Specifically we expect Gloggnitz Austria the Ruston Louisiana and Changzhou China expansions start-ups that came on line at the very end of the year to deliver benefit beginning in this quarter.
We are already seeing the benefit of that.
And the Ba Cheng China and Corlu Turkey plants will begin production in Q3 of 2015 as you can see here with trial efforts preceding these start-ups.
Lastly in Q4 of this year we have three more expansions coming online which will enable us to participate more fully in the regional sales opportunities that we have before us.
So we have many multi-year initiatives that will begin in 2015 and then see us an even stronger 2016.
On Slide 14 we have highlighted our foreign currency outlook for the year.
Foreign currency did have an impact on us at the end of 2014 and Cliff will give some highlights on that.
And the U.S.
dollar is estimated to reach 11-year high this year.
This will impact our P&amp;L and our balance sheet and the entire global market dynamics in our industry as our customers do have export businesses that are somewhat dependent on foreign currency exchange rates.
Key takeaways in this short overview are our sales volumes are expected to improve about 1% on a constant-currency basis and EBITDA is expected to improve about $4 million.
At today's rate however reported sales will be negative impacted by about $37 million and adjusted EBITDA would be benefited by $1 million.
Therefore our EBITDA as a percentage of sales is going to go up quite significantly with that outlook.
Current forecast for the full year indicate additional currency movements and that would cause sales and EBITDA to be impacted by about $2 million and $1 million respectively.
Of course there is a no real ability to impact these things precisely.
But currency is important to our company as the majority of our sales and EBITDA is outside of the United States but we report all of our results in United States dollars.
So we are going to be more transparent with what's happening in currency in our business with you so that we can understand it between us.
The foreign currency environment will impact our customers as well perhaps not rapidly but it will be a marginal impact on some of the export business of our customer base.
Be a little bit harder in North America to get business a little bit easier in Europe but we have similar market shares in these geographies.
So I'm getting the order if you will – we're a little bit neutral to that but it does have some reported differences given where U.S.
dollar reported.
Moving on to global market conditions as shown on Slide 15 and Slide 16 the 2015 global market environment is expected to be very similar to 2014 conditions of slow growth and transformation.
So you have this dynamic which Dave pointed out of pretty decent growth in some of the grades and then 20% declining quite a bit and that's been a multi-decade trend.
We do expect to see continued growth in consumption and production and tissue containerboard market pulp board all increasing while graphical grades are decreasing.
On Page 15 we've stated before the data in this industry does lag a little bit but we're showing the most recent data and you can see in the bottom of this chart where the puts and takes are by region and these are trends that's been underway for some time.
Both the nonwoven fabrics and fiber cement markets are growing nicely and those two markets are primarily outside of the United States.
Key highlights of 2015 include a global GDP of about 4% China economy growing approximately 6% North America economy growing about 3% European economy expected to decline.
As shown on Page 17 our spending peaked in 2014 and will come down in 2015.
This spending is enabling Xerium to put capacity in place to support multiple years of growth as well as eliminating cost redundancies and inefficiencies that we've had for quite some time.
Specifically our 2015 spending plan is $59 million and you can see it categorized here on Page 17.
This represents a 10% decline year-over-year and it will be spread across several areas.
If you look at the spend categories maintenance of business which includes repair activity safety spending quality spending IT spending and R&amp;D is about $15 million of our annual spend.
We have $7 million related to cost productivity $10 million in expansion of the rolls and service businesses $10 million to complete the Ba Cheng start-up and $17 million on others – several other large restructuring and cost reduction projects.
On Slide 18 you'll see that Xerium has a uniquely integrated portfolio of products and services.
We have four main products and service categories and that are spread across rolls machine clothing and analytics and automation.
Unlike single product suppliers we have a uniquely integrated portfolio of products and services to optimize machine performance the speed at which our customers can make their product the cost of which they can make their products and we integrate automate and are able to simulate the operation of the machine so that they can precisely pick the correct apparatus for their machine to see productivity and then we offer those (28:08) services to them.
Lastly on Page 19.
2015 will be another increasing and improving year for the company.
We are guiding to increase both sales and adjusted EBITDA for the year and while the sales growth is projected to be moderate due to the offset that we see our chances of upside performance will continue to improve as we have additional sales capacity coming on line for our profitable products and regional opportunity that are doing quite nicely.
We will continue to use this pause in the global market in aggregate to restructure our own facilities and our cost structure and our global footprint so that we're better aligned to capitalize on faster regional growth opportunities that we see.
Our spending will begin to come down this year.
But it is that – it will stay this year at a historically elevated level as we finish the process that we are underway with.
Our inventions and patents are at very high levels we now have over 400 patents granted to us and we have almost 100 more in application and additionally we have several new – quite a few new products underway for this year and we tend to add that portfolio as well.
Finally we have several important cost reduction programs capacity expansions new products which will come on line late in the year which will set up strengthening year into 2016.
We finished 2014 stronger fundamentally and we're well-positioned to build momentum in 2015.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready for questions.
Karen may we have the first question please? Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic of Sidoti &amp; Co.
Go ahead please.
Hi thank you for taking my call.
First question Harold you mentioned that your forecast or your guidance is conservative.
Can you talk a little bit about upside what will be the best case scenario right now that you would see? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Best case scenario good question.
I'll answer it honestly.
I would say there would be maybe another percent of growth.
And the real thing that we're trying – we're being transparent here by having Dave and Eduardo and Paul talk we certainly are bringing on online capacity which exceeds our guidance the capacity the expansion projects we're doing have been gauged to enable us to have the capacity we needed to grow for multiple years and we're being very conservative and consistent about adding that capacity with our value-added products and our best products and the big offset we have as a company is Dave regions on the graphical – the rate pace magnitude of the graphical grades decline.
Consumption consumption is gradual but the decline in consumption of graphical grade products is gradual.
However the supply the production side our customer side is they make decisions in their own best interest and we can have abrupt down shifts and when big mills are closed the biggest one in the last year was with IP Courtland facility in the southeast United States which no one saw coming and was a big major loss to the industry have concluded.
We're predicting some of that to happen and I think that our guidance is appropriate.
I think it's what's going to happen.
If there is a little bit of pause in the market you heard Dave say he is actually trying to grow 2.5% to 3% and in his regions he's guiding for de minimis growth.
So these two regions make up a little over half of the company.
So it could be about a point max but really I'm comfortable with our guidance really is what I think is going happen and you should expect that.
One more question.
I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned that you expect your cost to decline by $20 million is this just the restructuring cost or will we see any operational improvements? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes the biggest category of cost improvement is operational improvement operational excellence efficiency improvements if you will.
So we took out $23 million in 2013 we took out $25 million in 2014 internally we have a similar plan this year.
In our guidance we have baked in about $20 million.
So for us internally we're actually trying to do better than our guidance.
Last year we gave a range which included our internal plan if you will and we just kind of guided to the mid-point.
This year we're just going to give a number to make the modeling easier.
We have stretch goals amongst ourselves.
We're actually trying to do it pretty close this year to last year on cost out.
With the upside being efficiency at the plant level so the plants have cost per unit targets that they're all marching towards to they all have stretch targets on top of it.
These involve waste labor productivity energy usage material cost and there is the typical array of cost activities at plant level.
And of course the capital spending we're doing and the machinery and advances we're doing all enhance our capabilities to make product faster and better and less – more right the first time if you will.
So if we beat the curve on that a little bit that's how we'll come in close to last year.
We're being conservative with the outlook.
But we still see strong cost out activities going into 2016 too we're trying to be mindful of our budget.
We were listening to investors who like to see the deck come down a little bit so we're starting that program this year but we still have a strong target-rich environment for cost reductions going forward.
We've been gradually taking our SG&amp;A down as we improved our information technology systems.
Cliff's in-charge of information technology.
As we enhance our IT and we're able to have consolidation of account receivable accounts payable ordering we collapse those activities we're technically ready to do it more error-free and auditable.
So we do have a multiyear plan for SG&amp;A reduction as well.
So we've been carefully not appropriately take it down.
Our SG&amp;A did come down in 2014 versus 2013.
If you look at our report it shows that was up $600 000 it's really a reclass.
Cliff? The corporate overhead it shows up in the segment footnote as being up $600 000 that was due to a reclass between the segments we brought some more functional leadership under the corporate umbrella.
Overall SG&amp;A is actually down year-over-year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
So we are getting after SG&amp;A we are getting after the plants we have a multiyear plan we actually have a six-year plan that we're marching towards that has us paying off majority of our debt during that time period continuing this transformation that we have trying to be careful not over commit so that we maintain the credibility we've had of staying in our guidance.
So I feel comfortable with the sales outlook that we've given and I feel comfortable with the cost guidance that we're giving.
We have internal plans to beat both.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Melissa Tan of R.W.
Pressprich.
Go ahead please.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First question is really to understanding your currency exposure a little bit better.
I understand that about 60% of your sales are overseas what about your costs I mean what percentage of your costs are outside of U.S.? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we have a natural hedge.
We really have a translation issue because we primarily serve the local markets from within the region.
So in Europe we primarily are serving the market with European products if not exclusively 95% of our sales in Europe are made in Europe and so our costs are in euros and so the exposure we have to a U.S.
reported filing is that our sales will be impacted and our EBITDA.
It also brings down our working capital balances as reported in U.S.
dollars it's cash flow neutral if you will but the asset balances decrease when reported in dollars.
So we track efficiency DPO inventory and DSO and then we track it as a percentage of sales but the real exposure we have we just a couple where we have a situation where the production cost is different than what we sell in.
So we have a couple of instances where we sell in dollars but we produce in local currency.
We have a business like that a little bit of business like that in South America and we have some business like that in Southeast Asia.
So that's where we have our biggest exposure.
Cliff do you want to say any additional comments? Yes just summarizing what Harold is saying basically in our largest – our largest currency is in euro we are operationally hedged there.
Our sales are in euros our costs are in euros so the flow through effect of the FX exchange rate difference flows down right through our EBIDTA.
Same situation in Japan although it's a much smaller market.
Where we had a little divergence to that is in South America and Brazil predominantly and also Australia where we sell predominantly in U.S.
dollars however our costs into those markets are in the local currency and given the strength of the dollar we are getting benefits there.
So what you're seeing when you roll it altogether and I think we've got six to seven major currencies that we track in our business.
When you roll it all together what you see is that the euro drives the sales line for us.
So that's where we're saying at today's rates we expect sales to be down $37 million a lot of that is the euro impact.
However on the adjusted EBITDA line what we find when we roll through transaction and translation impacts is that our EBITDA will actually improve a little bit.
So it's kind of a different answer that you get then on the sales line because of the mix of the currency that how those currencies are behaving in those different regions and how that U.S.
dollar sales affects the local currency expenses in certain region.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So maybe 20 summary of that is that at the sales level our real exposure is in the euro and at the EBITDA – and it's negative – and at the EBITDA line it's primarily positive but in South America the business is transacted in dollars and our costs are in reals.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for the explanation.
And secondly I just want to dig in a little bit more on your guidance.
I understand that you have a very conservative just 1% growth and that's on a constant basis and $4 million higher EBITDA.
But you have talked a lot about the growth potentials in 2015 along with some benefit from the China plant and some from Turkey.
I mean it's just to me the numbers don't really seem to add up because you are trying to get into new markets that's outside the declining paper market and with every things sounding additive accretive to your 2014 numbers.
I mean the $4 million EBITDA it just seems very very low in my opinion.
I mean the type of growth that you expect to see in 2015 especially you are using these on the constant currency.
I will understand if it's on the – based on the current rate but if you are using constant currency to me just the guidance seems too low especially comparing to what you spoke about few months ago.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you're tying together two points which are true Melissa.
And if you just look at the actual numbers over the last few months in North America alone we've had $9.9 million of sales losses due to closures and in Europe $1.8 million.
So there is a current event here the closure rate the graphical grades it's only in those two markets there is no closures in South America and Asia.
This is really North America Europe story.
So there was truly an almost $12 million hit that we took as those closures happened.
So Dave tried to kind of paint that black and white on we're growing in these areas but we're getting hit in these other areas and that's where it is.
That's the order of magnitude.
And so we're talking 1% and 2%.
We're a 500-and-something-million-dollar company 1% is $5million and we've just lost $12 million.
So in offsetting that plus a little and also in Asia and in Europe it's offsetting it – excuse me Asia and South America.
But you're right.
The upside for us on the EBITDA line is the sales line.
And so we are – we do have activities underway to beat our guidance.
But we're hesitant to commit to that because of current hit – that the closure rates graphical grades over the last four months which tend to happen at the end of year as our customers do their next year business planning.
The closures this year were much higher than the prior year.
And so we're just hesitant.
We don't want to be misleading.
So it's a rough go.
But we still believe that this is going to go wash out.
And so we're just being conservative with that guidance.
You're right.
That's why we took conservatism that is where we hit it.
And that caused and that is what drove the EBITDA conservatism.
Okay.
And going into 2016 I mean you talked about in the past you see an additional $10 million coming from China and is that still intact and also what about your expectation for the big Turkey plant I mean that's after 2015 when everything is running at full speed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
The comment I made was the two plants Ba Cheng China and Corlu Turkey will deliver $10 million plus of EBITDA at full run rate which will not be 2015.
In both cases we have three-year plans to fill that capacity.
They both start up this year.
You would ask me I think – one of the comments one of the facts is how much you get out of China this year and it's truly just a start-up it's truly just a start-up here.
And so we're going to get less than 20% of the output of those two plants this year versus their full run rate.
So it's a ramp deal just speaking operationally versus financially.
The key -- the victory for new plants is to get off with good quality so that you have solid customer perceptions and as people want to order from those plants and they're not nervous about it.
There's been bad experience in Asia new plants starting up and having quality problems.
We don't want to do that.
So we have a conservative start-up profile with extra inspection and in Turkey the plant is a little more straight forward because of the way we're starting up in a limited product category.
All employees are trained now we're going to start off with rubber grinding rubber recovering and get into polyurethane and mechanical services.
So that was a little bit easier but when you're making press belt you can have to start up everything at once to make a good press belt.
There is no way getting around it and then Griffin and Neenah and Asahi the other plants at the end of the year come on and they're a bit more straight forward because they're expansions so they don't have the beta risk of a start-up they're just expansions of facilities we already have.
Thank you.
Just a last quick question before I hand it off to someone else.
You gave the – your expected growth for North American and Europe but you didn't give the growth number for Asia and South America.
I mean what type of numbers should we be expecting? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well actually I didn't – Dave didn't give his either.
He just said he's going to have offsets to 2.5% or 3% and our growth rates in the regions are going to be along the lines that they were in 2014.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Adam Ritzer of Pressprich.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I just had a couple of questions and just one small complaint.
My complaint is can you guys possibly release your results a little bit sooner after the market closes instead of at 7 o'clock at night or something? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
That – Adam that was – we had an internal glitch on that one we had intended to do it right away as we have in the prior eight quarters.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Just..
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And we had an internal glitch that won't happen again.
Inc.</span></strong> No worries just thought I mention that.
Specific – how much cash taxes did you pay in 2014? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> What? We actually have our executive in charge of taxes here Shannon (46:34) what was that number? Cash taxes for 2014 was about $14 million.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And in terms of CapEx I know you have a little slide there that shows your CapEx for 2015.
Can you give us a little forward-looking guidance on CapEx for 2016? Would it – I mean is it going to drop by $20 million once the spending in China and Turkey are done? Or maybe you could talk a little bit more about that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Adam it's more gradual than that.
We have – it's going to come down around 10% a year is what that's going to be like and then there will be a step change down.
If you look at our spending we bought out our spending to restructure these operations and move machines.
So it's heavy it's going to stay elevated by historical levels it will continue to come down.
I don't want to step beyond the Board of Directors.
So each of these is a Board of Director decision that's case-by-case but we do have a baseline of value creation baseline agreed at the board level and it will be gradual not abrupt.
So it's not going to be a deal where hey next year it's $15 million (47:52).
It's going to be gradual a gradual program of around 10% but then in three years from now – two more years of heavy spending two more years of heavy spending clip and then in the third year we're kind of through it.
And it comes down quite significantly and we become quite cash generative.
But we will continue to generate cash incrementally because our EBITDA is growing our CapEx is coming down our restructuring is coming down a little bit more than that.
So if you look at the total spend which we tend to combine restructuring and CapEx is a combined number because it's tied to a transformation activity and it's discretionary.
That number will continue to come down as our EBITDA comes up.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the bottom line is that step down function in 2017 or 2018? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Our baseline is 2018.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So 2018 then we get down to that I don't know $35 million $40 million whatever it is? Adam and I would say it a little differently – I would say that we've given guidance on 2015 right now it's $59 million.
As Harold said that's expected to come down another 10% or so in 2016 then we should see beginning in 2017 we're going to see a fairly meaningful reduction as we get through the programs that we've initiated.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
...and be back more towards the numbers you're talking about in beginning of 2017.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then another – just on the currency issue I think on Slide 14 you guys have mentioned that you have a $4 million higher EBITDA number because of currency.
So here is what I'm confused about if you're saying $4 million higher EBITDA in 2015 that's your whole incremental guidance above 2014.
So what am I missing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're saying on an operating basis we intend to increase by $3 million.
All the sales declines which Dave is having in his regions for people not reading newspapers nor doing telephone books anymore those losses the gains in regions at the sales line our cost out no matter what currency does or doesn't do that nets out to another $3 million.
On top of that currency is going to have an impact.
So we're trying to say operationally what we're doing and then we're trying to say however currency is happening to us and it has an impact.
So...
Inc.</span></strong> Well it has a positive impact though right? Yes yes.
So $1 million...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So you have a positive impact from currency.
You have a negative impact because of what you mention the graphical grade closures that whole side but you guys also the last couple of years have spoken about $25 million of cost saves in 2014 another $20 million in 2015.
How come we're not seeing a much bigger impact from those cost saves that should go right to the bottom line? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So inflation is the biggest one and so our inflation is more than $8 million.
Inflation is about $9 million to $10 million.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> $9 million to $10 million so that we have labor inflation we have medical benefits inflation we have rent inflation.
So like any company we have inflation.
So there is an annual not to start-off after just to be neutral.
So for us that's $9 million to $10 million.
So we have to offset that plus add some extra for the good guys and offset any negative price mix.
The highest prices we have happen to be in newsprint and graphical grades because those products have very smooth surfaces no imperfections very bright and they have rugged conversion processes as they go through.
So they actually have our highest price products on them.
So as that goes away and then in effect substituted for cardboard containerboard tissue nonwoven fiber cement it's actually negative price mix.
So we have negative price mix we have inflation to offset and still arrive at a positive number.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So it's the inflation and the higher margin graphical newsprint closures that are offsetting the cost savings is that the best way to explain it? Let me maybe walk you through that a little more specifically.
Negative price mix is about a negative $6 million impact.
And we have inflation of $9 million to $10 million.
Okay.
So there is $16 million that we need offset so if you got $20 million of cost saves all right and that's the primary pieces of the reconciliation.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Okay.
Yes.
I'm not looking for exact numbers.
I'm just trying to get a general trend there.
So that's kind of the overall issue right? Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then my last question has to do with the spending on the new plants.
You mentioned China and Turkey.
You said 2016 should contribute $10 million of EBITDA.
But you also said that you won't get to a full run-rate EBITDA for three years right so it's a three-year plan.
What do you expect full run-rate EBITDA to be for those two plants? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> $10 million plus.
Inc.</span></strong> But you said $10 million plus for 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I didn't.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Maybe I misunderstood.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I tried to say that twice but those two plants at full run-rate will deliver $10 million plus incrementally.
Both operations take 36 months to hit full run-rate from when they begin.
So if you look at the quarter at which they hit full run-rate or if you look at the year which they hit full run-rate or years from beginning you get into different scenarios.
But the paybacks for us are to get about 20% of this year the majority of it in 2016 full run-rate in 2017.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the $10 million plus is not till 2017? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's it.
Full run-rate for 2017.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I'll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Adam.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of James Gentile from Greenhouse.
Go ahead please.
Hey guys just had a couple of comments.
Your transparency is super for a $240-million-market-cap company.
So maybe I'm going to be a little bit more complementary as we observe 2.5 years into a strategic plan that seems to be hitting on very nice cylinders.
So congratulations Harold to you and the team.
First as a capital goods small cap investor it's tough to find a company generating – congratulations again – 40% gross margins here in the quarter four and 20% plus EBITDA margins and having EBITDA multiples of six.
Private market values of cash flowing assets such as these regardless of your past debt issues garner anywhere from eight times to 10 times EBITDA.
So that's probably where the valuation will shake out here in our opinion.
But I just wanted to kind of throw that out there and congratulate you guys on a successful two and a half years of executing on a very challenging global strategic plan.
And also I thought it was really cool that you gave us a little walk around the world and all the goings-on (56:20) area.
So congratulations.
Take care.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you James.
Thank you.
There are no further questions coming through at this time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Appreciate all the questions Q&amp;A for today.
And with that we'll conclude the conference call.
Thank you very much for listening to the call.
Karen? Hello? I'd like to handover the call to Harold Bevis.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call on May 12 2015.
I’ll now hand the call over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2015 first quarter financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning are members of our executive team at Xerium Technologies and speakers today include Harold Bevis CEO and President; Dave Pretty President of North America and Europe; Bill Butterfield EVP and Chief Technology Officer; and Cliff Pietrafitta EVP and Chief Financial Officer.
Harold will lead the discussion this morning and the other members of our executive team will discuss particular aspects of our Q1 2015 results then we will open the line for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were made available with the announcement of our Q1 2015 results in a press release and the filing of our 10-Q after the market closed on Monday May 11 2015.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage on our Web site at www.xerium.com.
I’d also like to note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the Company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2015.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today May 12 2015 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our Company.
Reconciliation of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers is available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in an additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All of these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our Web site at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s first quarter of 2015 results.
At this time I’d like to refer you to the Business Update slide deck that was posted to our Web site for this call.
And I'd like to start off with several significant highlights from the quarter.
On Page 3 of the slide deck we’ve summarized key highlights regarding our Q1 2015 results.
Adjusted EBITDA was 26 million and a record 22% of sales.
Our business is healthy and on track for a solid year.
On a constant currency basis Q1 sales decreased about 1% over Q1 2014 due to seasonal softening.
Our rolls and service sales were up 7% in constant currency and our machine clothing sales were down 5% showing a little bit of variation in our order patterns but our business is healthy strong and growing in many areas.
And as expected our Q1 results were a little bit seasonally lower as they have been and lower than Q3 and Q4 which are higher.
Our backlog did grow in constant currency of just 4% and now stands at $161 million of advance orders which is more than a quarters worth at our rate and we are gaining new business in multiple new areas and connected to specific programs.
Our EBITDA was a 2% increase over Q1 2014 as we expected it to be and our trailing 12 month EBITDA is up to $116.5 million which is a 12% increase compared to the prior 12 month period and our outlook is quiet healthy strong and growing in many areas.
Our adjusted EPS came in at a $1.52 per share trailing 12 month which was 124% increase over the prior 12 month period.
Currency as expected did have an impact on the business it caused a decline in sales compared to the prior quarter and it caused a slight gain in EBITDA and we expect this pattern to continue through the rest of 2015 and these he foreign currency exchange rates.
Our leverage stands at 4 times which is a deleveraging of the last couple of years and we’ll continue de-levering in the second half of this year as our spending curtailed somewhat and we have began to generate more free cash flow and immediately began paying down debt.
Third quarter is just a few weeks away so that we’re ready to start that new chapter in our book.
Structural changes were heavily underway with a full pipeline of 2015 activities.
We’re going to review some of them for you today we have seven sales growth programs four capacity programs and five new cost-out programs.
Our game plan is working very well.
We have a steady market and we’re showing the pipeline for a strong 2016 to boost.
Turning to Page 4 just to get to the next level of detail on the quarterly results.
Our EBITDA were up 26.2 million a slight increase as expected.
Our full year is actually trending over our guidance we’re going to increase our guidance today Cliff is going to talk to you about that a little bit and we have improving EBITDA outlooks for our business.
Our sales and product usage were slightly seasonally weak as expected we’re very heavily tightening the production run rates of our customers and the customers tend to have a light Q1 and they did again this year and we did with them.
However our new order backlog continues to increase above market due to our explicit actions that we’re taking we’re going to review the big ones that are coming on this year and it’s up 4% which is over the market from Q4 of last year.
Our roll sales did improve 7% as I mentioned while clothing sales decreased 5%.
Both of these products are tightening the production runs on the machine so this is just a little quarterly variation they’re consumed as the same rates they should overtime be smoothed out and lay around on top of each other but at here and we are optimizing our machine clothing business.
And the next big thing for us is to open a disruptive low cost facility in Kunshan China which is -- the ramp up is just a few weeks away now that’s coming online in the third quarter we’re going through production trials now and we have three other disruptive expansions coming online in the second half of 2015 where we expect a more forward participate in growing parts of the market and in growing geographies than we have before.
We’re going to view the main actions here together in a couple of minutes.
We’re continuing our optimization of our rolls and service business with the next big thing we’re doing as opening our brand new disruptive facility in Corlu Turkey.
We have a team on site there right now led by Bernd Hahne our VP at Global Rolls Operations and we’re going through trial runs.
We have a full order book before opening that facility and it’s coming online in just a few weeks as well.
Our gross margin did improve in the quarter.
We did expect to get currency benefits and we did and we expected to have additional cost reduction and we did.
They’re partially offset by unfavorable production absorption in the plants and we saw that coming as well.
So the quarter gross margins came in as we expected.
Our gross margins now stand at 44% machine clothing excluding the start-up costs in Kunshan and our machine clothing expansions and rolls and service gross margins improved to 36% excluding the start-up cost in Corlu Turkey plant.
Our structural change program is organized and specific.
We’re trying to grow in specific areas of the market where we have had underrepresented market shares and it is definitely a multi-aspect a multi-functional aspect game plan.
We’re focused on new customers in new areas brought in by new products that are patented and new solutions on machines backed up by spending on plant expansions and machine modernizations and new capabilities.
And our plans are really helping us out a lot by having plant specific operational excellence programs as well as a portfolio of strategy to be a global low cost producer of what we do.
So the quarter was a steady growth quarter for us.
We’re continuing to invest to enact structural changes at Xerium on the cost side and on the growth side.
We’re entering faster growing markets and pursuing high growth applications in new segments.
On the next page I’ll ask Dave Pretty who is our President of both North America and Europe to give an overview on behalf of our team of the market that we are in today Dave? Thank you Harold and good morning everyone.
Again just to highlight some of the factors that Harold commented on earlier.
Our 2015 market outlook remains similar to the 2014 market conditions.
To be more precise no major changes to annual or seasonal market patterns are expected.
As you can see on the chart on Slide 5 GDP grades and non-paper markets remain upbeat while rationalization consolidation continues in the newsprint and graphical grade markets.
As some of you may know I’ve been in this industry for more than 27 years and this Q1 does not feel any different than most with the respective regional seasonal and geographic market ebbs and flows.
Having said that our outlook for Q2 in the remainder of 2015 remains upbeat and we’re excited about the ongoing market and industry developments.
Our products and technology remain aimed at providing value to our global customers and by that I mean combining rolls including to create value.
To be more precise again we are focused on the global growth segments of tissue which shows great strength through ’15 forward packaging container paperboard again with great strength in 2015 forward as well as OEM tissue machine builders which we are aligned as well as the non-paper segments which include fiber cement.
As now the industry improves specialized siting continues to grow and finally in the industrial non-woven segments great growth opportunities.
Finally as you can see on Slide 5 seven of the nine grades are forecast satisfactory to good outlook for Q2 forward couple this to our growing backlog this gives a topping for another solid year.
I’ll now turn it over Bill Butterfield our Chief Technology Officer.
Thanks Dave.
First let me say I am excited about the opportunity to share with all of you the focus Xerium has on technology.
Xerium has concentrated on serving our customers’ needs through innovative unique and patented technology which is focused on solving problems improving efficiencies lowering cost in energy fiber and chemicals along with improving the quality of our customers’ products both in the paper and the non-paper segments.
We have an expansive portfolio of products with rolls and machine clothing putting us in a unique position to address our customers clothing machine needs.
We are focused on engineered solutions for our customers and this has always been a core focus for Xerium technology developments.
It’s a strength of Xerium and always has been and will continue to be so.
Because of our unique portfolio we are in a strong position to continue with this emphasis.
While we’re proud of our 700 plus roll compound portfolio.
Our expansive cutting edge and protected forming fabric press felts and engineered fabric product line along with our engineered tool box approach to customer problem solving.
We’re especially excited about our aggressive product development launches with specific growth targets into board and packaging the associated grades with those non-paper and tissue segments.
These new innovations involve unique and protected fibers in yarns smart technology and resolve total machine engineered solutions all focused on improving paper machine and non-paper equipment operations.
If we go to the slide on the left hand side of Slide Number six there are 32 new products have either come online in Q1 or in the pipeline for development in 2015 of those products 41% are in packaging 25% in non-paper and 19% in tissue.
In summary 85% of the new products that have come online or are being developed and will launch this year are targeted for these three growth markets.
If you look to the right hand side of the Slide Number 6 in the intellectual property section you can see our aggressive approach that we’ve been taking with increasing our patent portfolio.
Development activity has led to a growing patent portfolio which protects Xerium’s R&amp;D investment and future base business.
We have 415 patents in Q1 of 2015 and in the last three years that’s grown considerably as you can see from the curve.
37 patents were issued in Q1 of 2015 which gives you an example of the accelerated growth rate over the last three years.
92 patents are pending and they cover 68 inventions.
This accelerated intellectual property investment and protection is the direct result of increased new product development for future growth markets.
I’ll now turn the time back over to Harold.
Thank you Bill.
Turning to Page 7 we reviewed with you overtime our major projects and I just wanted to highlight them again for you on what’s happening in the second half of this year.
We have 10 projects and 18 new products coming online in quarter two three four and the value of those is $50 million in sales $25 million EBITDA of full run rate.
We all have a fraction of the economic benefit in our guidance right now and we’ve had a lot of early victories here.
We will be looking at our quarterly it's our quarterly EBITDA guidance quarter-to-quarter now because we are starting to experience some outside performance due to these projects and I just want to give you a real look at this.
Covering the span of time it is about $84 million of cash we've spent.
Some of you have tracked that with us some haven’t it has come with 2.5 calendar years and they are coming to fruition now.
The first project that came online projects number one or two were a de-bottlenecking over our high-end tissue press felts.
And that was in [indiscernible] last year that came on in the second half of last year and an expansion of our mechanical services capabilities in the Southern U.S.
which is a fantastic market for containerboard cardboard brown paper.
The next one is a non-woven and dryer growth expansion by us in our Kentville Nova Scotia facility.
We don't have very large market shares in dryers in North America and it is partially due to the fact that we've been sold out for a long period of time and for the first time in over a decade we've renovated our product with patented solutions and we've put in place new product and capacity to make those products so that we have good lead times to service North American market.
It's coming online now as we speak.
If you look at the projects that are in the second half of this year as we get in the third quarter we have a brand new Spiral Dryer.
Our product line is coming online in João Pessoa Brazil for the Americas.
For high temperature applications we've brand new non-woven and specialty products capacity coming online in Gloggnitz Austria.
We have a brand new factory starting up at Corlu Turkey and we've already resold our business there.
We have a brand new forming powered machine coming online in Japan with specific designs with the Japanese paper and board markets.
We have expansions in our Griffin Georgia plant and our Neenah Wisconsin plant to expand on mechanical services capabilities as well as our ability to serve more business and we have our press felt plant in Kunshan China coming online as well.
This is really stacked up it’s a lot of bidding coming online at the same time and it's one of the reasons why our spending will curtail somewhat and why we are really excited about our future opportunity for growth.
As Dave mentioned on his page he has been in this business for a long time as the market is pretty steady pretty consistent there's a not a lot of this is not a fast moving market as well now.
It's steady it looks good in the right spots it looks like it's declining in a couple of others but not a lot of change.
Bill gave you an overview of how we've loaded the gun here with patented solutions to make the machines run better and we've got $84 million of spending to make the plants ready to serve and deliver these products to customers with rapid lead times and right the first time quality so we're pretty excited inside the building here about what's coming next for us and this will also help 2016-2017 it is a disruptive agenda it's backed up by a lot of patents over 200 of them.
These patents are solutions that we have for machines to run better that cannot be duplicated or mimicked by others they are assets.
And it is coming in at a time across multiple products and multiple geographies and we're not slowing down as Bill mentioned we have 90 other invention patents in the pipeline to help future periods so it's a big effort by us and we expect to have big upside from it.
Turning to Page 8 putting in perspective here the last couple of years the work that we've done these projects are really a result our a big repositioning we've done of our footprint and our productive assets for us to grow.
We've closed six plants we've closed the João Pessoa almost closed now in the lower right corner and we've repositioned those assets in 12 other locations that have better profile specs and we've re-purposed many of the machines to make products that they weren’t making before.
As an example the João Pessoa was a forming fabric facility that was duplicative to the Piracicaba facility we took some of the loans and repurposed them to make woven dryers and we're installing them in Kentville Nova Scotia to make dryers for the North American market.
Worst is forming fabrics for the South American market it's been capital efficient what we've done we've reused a lot of the machines that we already owned and were on our book above and we reinstalled them in the new locations to perform different duties for us on a go forward basis.
So we still have a couple of more rationalization to do but it is slowing down now.
And we've been through a big-big pushover here and you can see the magnitude of it on Page 8 so we're quite excited about it.
They'll give us new opportunity to grow.
This repositioning fundamentally was about getting a higher performing top-line higher sales growth.
I'd like to turn your attention to the first quarter a little more deep-dive into the numbers and I'd like to turn it over to Cliff Pietrafitta our Chief Financial Officer.
Cliff?<br> Yes.
Thank you Harold.
As shown on Slide 9 our Rolls and Services sales increased by 7.4% in Q1 of 2015.
Roll sales results were above market and continued to be aided by our increasing efforts mechanical services and successful new product introductions.
In addition the new facility in Corlu Turkey and the two plant expansions in Griffin Georgia and Neenah Wisconsin come online in the second half of 2015 and all will contribute to the successful growth of our global rolls and service business.
Our machine clothing business declined 5% from Q1 2014 to Q1 2015 in line with declines in graphical grade markets as well as mill closures and soft sales in Japan.
And we are taking actions to address the declines in our machine clothing business by focusing on excess capacity in certain locations and opening a new low cost machine clothing facility in Kunshan China in the second half of 2015.
Moving to Slide 10 adjusted EBITDA grew to 22% of sales and the reminder of 2015 adjusted EBITDA is expected to hit higher in both dollars and percent.
Our business is healthy and strong and both of our operating segments are continuing to contribute to adjusted EBITDA in a meaningful way.
Machine clothing contributed 21.8 million in Q1 of 2015 up 0.4 million from 21.4 million in Q1 of 2014 driven primarily by favorable FX effects and continued cost reduction and partially offset by lower sales volumes.
Rolls and services contributed 8.1 million in Q1 of 2015 up 0.7 million from 7.4 million in Q1 of 2014 driven primarily by increased sales volume and continued cost reductions partially offset by unfavorable FX effects.
Slide 11 shows our Q1 2015 and trailing 12 month basic adjusted EPS results.
Trailing 12 month basic adjusted EPS for Q1 2015 was $1.52 of 124% from $0.68 per share in 2014.
This increase is primarily driven by the improvement in gross margins and our cost reduction initiatives.
Slide 12 shows that 2015 projected adjusted EBITDA guidance has improved to 120 million to 122 million our business is exceeding our expectations.
This represents an increase of approximately 3% to 5% over 2014 adjusted EBITDA of 116 million.
As Harold mentioned previously we've 25 million of full year run rate EBITDA coming online in the future related to current growth capital expenditure projects.
We will update our progress each quarter against this partially our update this quarter is that we're increasing the upper-end of our guidance range to 122 million while remaining tethered to the low-end of our prior guidance of 120 million.
We're on-track to deliver another solid year of improvement turning the corner to add debt reduction to the program as planned in the second half of this year.
As shown on Slide 13 as we turn the discussion on to full year 2015 expectations.
Full year 2015 is shaping up to be a solid year for Xerium.
Net sales volumes are expected to increase by approximately 1% in constant currency with seasonally stronger Q2 and Q3 ahead of us.
We are repositioning for the long-term and transitioning from declining markets into new growth markets with some short-term pain along the way.
Adjusted EBITDA expectations improved to a range of 120 million to 122 million assuming current FX rates and our structural change program is fully underway.
In addition our plant network and commercial readiness-to-serve is going through a step-change transformation in 2015 involving 10 plants in 8 countries.
Further our debt pay-down program begins in Q3 as planned.
Finally several important cost reduction programs capacity expansions and new products will come online in late 2015 which will set up another strengthening year in 2016.
Overall our business is healthy and on-track.
Thank you Cliff.
And that concludes our prepared remarks and now we're ready for questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic.
Your line is open.
Quick question regarding debt pay-down program can you remind us what the plan is just for the next two-three years? The plan over the next two to three years is to debt pay-down the debt beginning in the second half of this year we will ramp-up gradually we expect to pay-down about $10 million of our term debt this year as with plants that will increase over the next couple of years.
We expect to get our leverage ratio down around three times over that three year period and that over a longer period of time we expect to cut the in half but again it is out five to six years.
That was by I think the last time you mentioned by 2020? Yes correct.
On the last conference call you guided for free cash flow of about 9 million to 10 million does that still hold? 5 million to 10 million yes free cash flow is still the same as we said last quarter.
And Katja as we continue trending up our guidance and EBITDA we've to also trend up our amount of free cash flow dollar-for-dollar so you are right with what you said so we're expanding our range a low bit with the outlook for free cash flow and right now we're trending above that guidance but we don't want to get too in front of ourselves and so we're just increasing that expectation range right now which also commensurately increases our range of free cash flow we don't intend to spend more we intend to pay-down debt more.
My next question goes to the EBITDA you mentioned that the new projects could potentially add about 25 million if I'm correct why don’t you include that in you guidance what's stopping you? Well we have to fill the capacity obviously and rather than going for large accounts per se we're going position-by-position and winning we've engaged in technical run offs machine-by-machine.
And if you look at this year's amount Katja there is only $2 million or $3 million in our guidance if we happen to have bigger wins there are a few big global RFPs out there.
There is also new regions that we're entering there is new products that we're offering.
So if we have a higher success rate as we have increased success we will increase our guidance and it will be sales performance.
Because we're pretty much a given and committed to our cost-out plan for the year we expect to reduce about 22 million take about 22 million of cost out of the business this year versus last year.
The market looks if you looked at the update on numero analytics or any of these guides the markets is going be up around 1%.
So it's same kind of market environment we're taking the same kind of cost out of the business.
The big change for us is the sales growth initiatives we've replaced that are powered by patented products that deliver machine performance that hasn’t been offered.
And as we get those wins they will fill that new capacity.
And internally we've committed to three year fill rates Katja if we happen to have success rates faster than it will drive our guidance up on EBITDA and it will also drive our free cash flow guidance up.
But sitting here today the facts that we have in our hands suggest that we should just stretch our guidance a little bit.
Just one last question what's happened in Japan? You mentioned in your prepared remarks that it was a soft quarter there.
Do you see a recovery? We do and also on the phone we have Paul Wang who is the President of Asia region he is calling in from Shanghai Paul would you take that question please? Yes I know that the for Asia our view for the market still remain unchanged and specifically if you look at the China particularly that we are very excited about their government have turned into the internal growth of consumer consumption.
And that have been yielding the growth and support despite that the export has been slowing down.
But still they end up with their GDP of 7%.
And that story still not only in China in South Asia we are also seeing the growth potential.
So our view of the Asia growth are unchanged and we're still excited about the opportunity and if I may to add another factor if you look at our company portfolio the Asia is on a handful 20% of our business.
But Asia on the global paper market is actually 45%.
So just by that factor alone there is still a lot of the potential for us to grow there.
And Paul on the Japan softness that we saw in Q1 could you elaborate on that just the temporary nature of that? Yes on the Japan side that for everybody on the call that some of you probably know that the end of the year is March.
So what we have been seeing that some of our customer when they closed to the end of the year that they have been slowing down the ordering and that was the contributing factor for our slowed volume a little bit via slide off on the first quarter.
But as know is already in May we are already seeing that the volume starts to swing back on the April and the backlog of the May and June is already been picking up.
So we still maintain our full year view on the Japan's market.
Your next question comes from the line of Melissa Tan.
Your line is open.
Just a quick follow-up to the previous caller in terms of updated guidance for 2015 that 2 million.
Would you consider that 2 million more of incremental EBITDA from your new project or that will be more of currency impact? Well you are talking about the increasing guidance that we have? Yes moving from 120 to 122 I just want to understand if it's organic growth or it is more driven by currency type of benefit.
To be honest our internal roll up actually is way over our guidance level.
And it's a combination of sales growth cost down and currency.
So I want to pin the range increase to one factor.
We just have strength in the major initiatives that we're pushing and currency is helping us and our strategic trials are going well for our new products and our new capacity and we have very heavy pre-ordering in a couple of our products and capacity we have brought online.
So once I’d say it’s balanced it’s a balanced increase and it’s beneath our roll ups by a lot.
So as we gain confidence and start to actually deliver numbers we’ll increase our guidance but we’ve been pretty disciplined about not overwriting where we are headed and letting our numbers do the talking and so Q1 was seasonally soft as we thought but Q2 Q3 Q4 look really good in terms of cost out sales growth and the projects and the spending too because you are always deferring the cost overruns on projects.
So the spending looks like it is coming in like we thought cost-out like we thought.
Sales growth is a little better and it bodes down to call offs and getting successful trials.
Dave do you want to add any color to that on the how fast we could build a new capacity and what the drivers are in the market.
Yes Harold in terms of the strategic penetrations into the markets that we referred to earlier on on the tissue segments and the packaging group we are adding success new penetration into customers that previously have not served before in those segments both in Europe and in North America and to Harold’s point about three fill rates definitely the trials can lead to improved sale of those plants.
And in terms of 25 million of guidance that you give in for the new projects when do you expect the majority of that starting to kick in will you say that is more of a 2016 or 2017 story? They are 36 month fill rates is what we signed up for so it’s basically it starts in Q3 over the prior 36 months just like the question on the debt pay down if you look at… Okay.
…that 36 month period we’re trying to pay down around $100 million of debt during that 36 month period which crosses four calendar years which Katja picked up on so these projects are coming online it is multi years of sales growth capacity.
So we don’t need to do that spending every single year.
So we have pre-spent $84 million to put in place that capacity which we believe will solve the problem for us for several years and we’ll pay down debt during that interim period.
If we happen to have higher success sooner it would cause us to expand sooner.
So we’re not going to over commit the free cash flow here because we will have higher EBITDA but we would be reinvesting for more growth if that happens.
If sales penetration is lower than we think then it will allow us even further and we’ll spend our additional spending from the outside further.
So I think the $100 million debt pay down is pretty safe here and the EBITDA growth is going to depend on winning the way we want to win and the way we’re trying to be technology winner here and so we’re leading where patented machine technology and we’re trying to win technical run-offs.
We’re not going up and matching practice of winning one.
We’re trying to win by showing machine operators and OEM machine builders that our products will make their machines work better and each one of the products that built again into a lot of detail on these patents we have brought online which is now over 150 on the inventions they are buying but each one of them is geared towards a technical win.
It’s the same way our other public peer competes we like that competition.
It makes for a good industry structure and that’s the way we’re going to win.
So right now we’re being I think we’re picking in middle of the road success rate expecting higher favorable concern but right now it is slower because we’re already on to a stronger rate and we expect it because we’re increasing our guidance.
So we’re going to look at it every quarter though we’re going to be a honest reporter.
So if our progress is a little better than we’re going to increase our range and if it is not we are not.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer.
Your line is open.
Just specifically you guys you have given this $25 million additional EBITDA guidance coming in the future what period of times specifically is that is that ’16-’17 could you be a little more specific on when you think you can achieve that? Sure.
Now we’re talking specifically about our sales growth programs.
On top of that we do have a multiyear cost-out program.
And we’ve taken a lot of cost-out of this business and we have a multiyear plan to continue doing so.
Those projects have to do with a benefit from extra sales and the value of the capacity that we have put in place at today’s favorable contribution margins that’s the value of that capacity.
Our contribution margins around 50% when you look at our numbers.
And therefore we have about 50% kind of value of that extra sales capacity.
So that capacity gets down to square footage tonnes and number of rolls and suction boxes that you could service with the capacity we have brought in line.
The guidance and we have committed to ourselves and to our Board of Directors that that capacity is sufficient for 36 months.
And the clock starts ticking when it comes online and if you see how those stars are aligned into the second half and they’re pretty much focused on Q3 even on top of that if we’re more precise.
So Adam starting in the third quarter which is what six weeks from now we have a bunch of capacity coming online.
We have been working on the trials for over 1 year preceding these so you have pre-orders and so this is a culmination really in the beginning and we are hitting the ground running with patented products being sold into some cases new customers in new regions.
And I would expect that in the -- put a line on it we're signing up for gradual right now if we could think about that in the next call.
But right now we're thinking of a gradual fill and the pre-ordering that we’ve got in advance of these projects coupled with the strong success the plant’s have had pat reducing cost have led us to increase our guidance already for this year.
I don’t mean to interrupt you but let me just refocus on the question.
You guys say you have 25 million additional EBITDA coming in the future.
Is the future ’16-’17 is it ‘18 ’19 ’20 when specifically do you think you could add that additional 25 million? Well said there is 3 million in this year so take 25 minus 3 you got 23 left and we said it will cover in 36 months I have said please make it uniform across the period.
So if you look at the cumulative deal you will have an additional amount in ’15 and ’17 we will have full run rate in the second quarter of ’18.
Okay so full one rate so basically this is 2018 additional EBITDA on top of what you're guiding this year okay I got it.
And could you go over your CapEx program for ’16 ’17 ’18 as well? We haven’t guided to the future CapEx yet Adam and I just want to make sure that you get the whole picture though.
You spread the value of our sales growth correctly there with your assessment but we also have taken additional in that cost out of the business is quite significant.
So our future business model is a balance program of the value of additional sales growth and the value of additional cost out net.
So the total outlook for the business is a combination of those two right so it's cost out in sales growth and as far as guidance for EBITDA growth for those future years we haven’t given multi-year guidance in EBITDA growth of spending at this time.
We did give some guidance here today on and we have previously when asked on debt pay down because it's important to a lot of people.
But we have not articulated multi-year EBITDA guidance.
Well you kind of gave EBITDA guidance and you gave debt pay down guidance.
So I'm trying to figure out exactly how you get to this debt pay down free cash flow.
So if I don’t have the CapEx guidance it's kind of hard to get there? We're only giving 2015 guidance right.
We're not going to get '16 or '17 Adam [indiscernible]? Okay some kind of taking you at your word with the EBITDA not knowing what your CapEx is how you are going to pay down 100 million of debt right? I guess so.
And my last question is you guys have did a little worse this quarter on the PMC side.
Obviously you guys listen to Albany's calls Albany is seemed to be doing better in PMC this quarter.
What do you think the difference is are there operating in different parts of the world is something going on between you two guys in terms of market share? Now they have a different portfolio than us they have a big market share in dryers and they have transfer belts which we don’t make they have coordinator belts that we don’t make they have shoe pressers that we don’t make.
And they are significantly larger in Asia and as Paul mentioned Asia has its own ordering patterns with Chinese New Year and then of course Japan is on a March fiscal.
And so the order patterns in Asia are different and they have a different mix regarding head-to-head we are very much the same they've been very consistent with their comments.
So if you look at products production run rates at the customer level and look at where is the numero in lots of third parties.
Machines there is a lot of data on this industry and machines are soft in Q1 probably period end of story with regards to ordering patterns to what Albany makes they’ve been very consistent that they have heavy ordering in Q1 that’s not connected to machine run rates and I'm sure that is true.
I'm not inside they're door there it’s also true that we don’t have their portfolio we don’t have their geographic line up and so our patterns are unique to us.
So I would say they are right with what they're saying and they've been consistent and we're right with what we say and we have been consistent.
They tend to have a strong Q1 we don’t we tend to have a strong Q3 and they don’t.
Okay it's basically different product set and they have obviously a little more exposure in Asia that’s doing better right now.
Okay great I really appreciate the color.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Young.
Your line is open.
Just respect to the order backlog talked to about being up 4% could you give a breakdown or just a little bit more color on is that on the machine clothing side or the wall cover work side and then also just what the issues that you had in Japan is that order backlog maybe even bigger today on May 12th versus where you were on March 31st? Thank you Anthony.
On Japan it just temporary ordering patterns due to the fiscal year and it is financially not that material to us to be honest it's not swinging a lot of numbers for us.
In terms of the breakdown between PMC and rolls both of them are up nicely in terms of dollars they are very similar and in terms of dollars amount as they're up in constant currency.
In terms of regional we're pretty much up in every region as well up a lot in North America and in terms of our backlog flat South America Europe up below Asia for a lot.
So in France we expected I guess the thing to say Anthony is the first quarter we expected it to the soft and it was just a little softer than we thought.
But the bounce back is what it should be given the production run rates that are publically listed and so the expectation for the year is the same same for us which is we're going to be around 1% which is the market.
But it could have upside potential for us due to our exclusive actions that we're underway with.
And we haven’t guided to that we're basically guiding the market growth.
But we're seeing some stretch already as the success from our project.
So that's where we're seeing the upside the Japan thing was temporary it's already come and gone but it was true and so we have had it one of the factors in Q1.
And we have a very high quality backlog a lot of tissue a lot of packaging and we've been successfully net replacing things that are declining and ending up with a positive backlog but obviously when you have a declining segment the backlogs are going down in those areas and then you have things that are going up.
So it's a net be up that amount when you do the math of the market net being up 1 we net gain positions.
Okay.
And so it was a winning on a go forward basis that was a winning quarter in terms of 10 multiple sales in the quarter run rates are soft as we thought it looked a even softer than we thought.
Okay.
And then with respect to all the patents that you guys have filed and as far as these patents go are there just will be used in your technical run offs or I mean is there going to be some capital that will be necessary to implement some of these things in out years or I mean are these sort of cheap options that you guys have like on the business right now? Well it's mainly parcel to our finishing that we're doing if you look at our prior expansion our woven prior expansion we're doing in Kentville is with brand new product designs new yarns if you look our spiral dryer expansion we're doing it is with new designs new yarns new machines.
If you look at our non-woven expansion that we're going not-woven fabric production at Gloggnitz there we are seeing new designs new yarns.
So we've tried to be different and disruptive in each case disruptive in terms of differential machine performance for the customer.
So that they get benefits from our product and each one of them we have -- if they are not they require machine investment too in large part different tensions that's required different stabilities are required and in the rolls business and mechanical services business.
We've taken the opportunity as we've expand our capacity to enhance our capabilities for each one of the things.
I can’t think of one project where we didn’t try to advance our capabilities and the value to the customer on any of our spending.
So we're disciplined with what we are doing and we're trying to be disruptive.
We're trying to give the customers a technical reason to change and run our products.
And so far so good and we've been we're off to a good start on that Anthony.
Your next question comes from the line of John.
Your line is open.
I would first this I think is the last time I'll do it but Harold thank you very much for the slide deck it's great to see it helps me a lot in understanding where you're going.
I'd like to focus on Page 7 and tie that back a little to Page 5 one of the things I've seen in 7 is that 2015 is clearly a year you have tried to get projects up and running.
And I don't really want 2016 guidance on revenue and EBITDA but I'm wondering if 2016 also has a list of 10 stars on it that will be projects that will come online in 2016 that’s question number one and then will get to Slide 5? Okay.
I’ll switch to Page 7 and the simple answer on 2016 on the stars; no sir we’re not going to have a wind up like that.
Again this is a culmination of many-many years of effort by Bill’s team our sales team to get trials our application and engineering team in the fields to apply these products directly and this is a lot of activity that’s non-recurring and it was needed to be done it was latent if you will if it had not been acted upon for a period of time.
It was one of the key aspects of how we wanted to turn around the performance of this company and we were jammed up just a couple of years ago and not being able to grow in areas that we’re growing and this de-bottlenecks I think that we did enroll we didn’t pull and punched here.
So the Board of Directors was on the same page with fixing these problems and we have advocated a strong corrective agenda and we’ve implemented it.
So the 2015 and 2016 version of Page 7 is very-very ting.
We might have one or two stars.
That’s fine I just kind of wanting to get that but I think it ties to Adam’s question about CapEx.
We can’t kind of -- you don’t have to give me guidance but I can kind of assume that the CapEx will be coming down in 2016? It will come down a little the best thing that we have in front of us is our discretions and we have a little growth on our plan of rationalization to do and it is expensive.
I would then also say that the Page that you referred to I am just going to go to Page 8 again if you look at the six plants that we have closed on Page 8 in the bottom right hand corner we more or less closed the easy ones first and the hard ones and the big pay back ones are in front of us.
The fact is that our desecration when we do them.
But they are expensive in terms of severance and then the reemployment of the machines and for alternate location.
So we do not have a Board approved plan for next year I’m not withholding answering.
We don’t have a Board approved plan for you next year and I don’t want to forward step my authority or even the truth.
So when we have a plan for next year I’d happy to articulate it.
Yes I believe it will come down and the fact that we’re not going to do these extra sales professions but I also mentioned when Adam was speaking we have a very strong cost out again that still remains to be down and covers a five year period go forward and it requires spending in terms of severance and redeployment of assets in the growth locations.
The main way we’re going to keep growing here without finding machines is deployment of assets that are going to be in orphan facilities and we re-disposition those assets into growth locations and so we will take machines we already own and reinstall them so with proper upgrades to repurpose them.
So we’re not down on the cost side but yes we’re going to take a pause on the sales growth activities.
So yes I believe the spending will come down and as a percentage of our free cash flow I mean if you look at last year we were at $116 million of EBITDA plus we paid a $25 million tax payment to Brazil to settlement contingent liability that we had for 10 years.
We don’t have to do that every year and so going into next year you’re going to have a higher EBITDA rate less spending more net free cash flow to pay down debt.
So we don’t have to really the cut spending off tremendously to do what we are doing.
It’s a gradual program the numbers that Cliff gave on the 100 million of our 36 months is really a gradual program if we wanted to expedite that pay down we could and we could spend nothing and not get after the cost stuff and pay down debt very much these are conversations we have with the Board of Director [indiscernible] so I’m not going to articulate anything different than what we’ve done which is taking cost out of the business [indiscernible] I am saying we are going to spend the last on the sales growth and so we will be taking the capital down gradually.
Okay.
I just want -- you always lift your non-paper fibers from that non-woven segment how is that coming? The products is the fair question on the non-woven side our products are performing extremely well during trials.
So then it is a real cynicy product with picking fluffing and a lot of specific one really get into on chain performance but we’ve had some big wins at big accounts and they have had some machines that are called riffle build machines and the big customers in this area are well know I don’t want to customer names but we have landed one big premier global customer we are up and running.
On fiber cement the products are little less cynicy than the non-woven side we have some difficulty with our designs early on but we guided it out it lagged a little bit the success rate within our non-woven and the fiber cement market 80% of it is outside of North America.
So it's primarily a global business for us.
And lead times matter so the debottlenecking activity of bringing the Kunshan plant will unlock some capacity that we will have in order to serve that market.
So that one we're waiting on the debottlenecking of fiber of press felt productive capacity nonwoven can be made in our forming fiber plants and we had a little bit open capacity there.
So let’s say nonwoven is doing a little bit better than fiber cement.
But fiber cement is coming on strong both of them we've a lot of upside on both of them.
And we expect to fully participate in the growth of those businesses with patented products.
Okay.
The final question is as it is easy for everyone on this call to hear your enthusiasm and the amount of pride you have in the first quarter results and what you're looking forward to in the next nine months in 2015.
But I'll just throw the cautionary question out there what's troubling you about the industry that may hurt the progress you're making to-date? The biggest concerns we've internally are really not market risk they are operational risks.
So we're doing a lot of projects here in farewell.
We're not a huge team all of us are personally leading some of these projects the market I think is well known well articulated if there is about an ugly here and they are trends they are not a disjointing movements they are trends that are underway and knowable and you could see them coming and all I have to do is study them and then if you could see them.
With regards to operational risks thing happen machine delays training cost of crap rates has start up.
So most of our concerns around operational risk on the market risk side which you did mention the one that is unpredictable is mill closures line closures in the graph of way business you just don’t know who is going to blink you don't know what line what mills to close and when we have all the cash cost per unit things we can predict what we think is going to happen it's 50:50 because these are big companies and they're starting to optimize their own business game plan.
So there is an unpredictable part of this that is definitely is in place but in terms of competitor behavior it is consistent and good fast void evolving we all compete on technology we're all trying to beat each other in technology very happy about that.
And we're doing a lot more than others we are probably doing more than everybody combined to reposition our company and so as the monkey is on our back to start with some operational risks I don’t know if that helps.
John? Can you hear me? We can hear you.
Sir you're still on? He may have disconnected.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Howard Bilerman.
Your line is open.
Harold can you just tell us what is your current leverage ratio and what are you anticipating at the end of the year after do you pay-down some debt? Yes the current ratio is at 4 times and we expect to be by the end of the year we'll be just under that [Multiple Speakers].
Pardon me I'm sorry [indiscernible].
In the high threes 3.8 to 3.9 somewhere in that range I guess [indiscernible].
Next question is a lot of discussion around free cash flow and debt pay-down you're eight and seven eight step down in 30 days the core price steps down to 104.
Just a mere refinancing of these high cost notes could be worth considerable amount of cash flow to you what's your thoughts on refinancing you're outstanding debt? You're right.
That our cash interest is $33 million to $34 million the cost to refinance definitely goes down if we refinance obviously our debt will go up because we will capitalize on the refinancing costs which are banks lawyers and the call premium so that would make our debt go up temporarily in the short-term.
Our current game plan is to refinance next year but we're monitoring the rates and it's the market there and we feel that the rates are going to go up a lot we will pull the trigger on that we have proposal in house or market aware the best place for our debt probably is Europe not the United States we have a big NOL in the U.S.
We have unencumbered assets in Europe and Asia and the right set up for us is to have fixed and variable debt because we do plan on extinguishing debt beginning in the third quarter and so we don’t want to get jammed up with our ability -- we don’t want to basket in our way that would prohibit us from taking debt down significant debt down significantly leveraging.
So optimal design has with cash yields scenarios where we pay a tax which is not in the U.S.
and as us with the right step up with variable so that we can extinguish it.
And that’s kind of the problem we are staying on top of it though we’re not against it for this year but it’s not in the current plan and we’re watching the satellite as you are as a real company and we’re aware of rate outlooks.
But they are getable you are right the costs to do the transaction is going out of 30 days and we’re well aware of that.
Okay Howard Just to do a little back of the envelope here and add a little bit more fuel to that if you save yourself 2% in interest rates that’s $5 million in free cash flow your premium is only 10 million that’s a two year payback period.
It’s a very-very attractive payback period.
And to your point we don’t know how long the window stays open in terms of refinancing.
So to me $5 million in free cash flow seems like a pretty just in refinancing it now seem like a pretty easy way to pick up 50% more free cash flow in this year.
If anyway that so I think I’d made that point.
My other question was Brazil is Brazil is done is there anymore liability out there or Brazil has past us at this point.
Actually we have with us also Shannon our tax leader Shannon? Yes actually we’re happy to say that we have our Brazil issue behind us as of 2014.
We have no more updating liabilities related to Brazil.
Okay perfect.
And one more on that subject how about the pension liability do you need to make a lump-sum contribution anytime soon to your pension plan? No our contribution will be roughly $1 million higher than our expenses so $6 million this year is not a lump-sum catch up it’s just the normal few things that we’ve been making into our plan.
There are no additional audio questions in queue.
I’m going to turn it back over to Mr.
Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for your thoughtful questions and for joining our first quarter earnings call.
Look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter earnings call.
And with that we’ll adjourn the call for today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you again for joining us.
This does conclude today’s webcast.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call on August 11 2015.
I’ll now hand the call over to Kevin McDougall Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to Xerium Technologies 2015 second quarter financial results conference call.
Joining me this morning is Harold Bevis CEO and President Xerium Technologies; Cliff Pietrafitta EVP and Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Butterfield EVP and Chief Technology Officer.
Harold will lead the discussion this morning with Cliff and Bill discussing Q2 2015 highlights in their respective areas.
Then we will open up the lines for questions.
Xerium Technologies financial results for the quarter were made available with the announcement of our Q2 2015 results in a press release and the filing of our 10-Q after the market closed on Monday August 10 2015.
Notification of this call was broadly disclosed and this conference call is being webcast using the link on the Investor Relations homepage of our Web site at www.xerium.com.
I’d also note that we will make comments today about future expectations plans and prospects of the company such as our general expectations for the remainder of 2015.
These statements constitute forward-looking statements for the purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in Monday's press release and in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements represent our view as of today August 11 2015 and we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Lastly on this call we plan to discuss supplementary non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA that are key metrics for our credit facility and that we use internally to assess liquidity and financial performance and therefore believe will assist you in better understanding our company.
Reconciliations of these measures to the comparable GAAP numbers are available in our press release in our earnings call presentation and in an additional reconciliation schedule which we encourage you to read.
All of these materials are posted in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.xerium.com.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you Kevin and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s second quarter 2015 results and at this time I’d like to refer you to the Business Update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights from the quarter.
On Slide 3 of the presentation we’ve summarized key highlights regarding the second quarter 2015 results.
On a constant currency basis Q2 2015 sales increased about 3% over Q1 2015 driven by an increase of little over 3% in machine clothing primarily due to an increase in sales in Asia and South America and also an increase of about 2% sales in rolls and services primarily as a result of increased OEM sales and increases of sales in both Europe and South America.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in North American sales as a result of temporary decline in mechanical service sales in North America.
Gross margins excluding plant startup costs were 41% of sales in Q2 marking the 11<sup>th</sup> consecutive quarter of margin improvement.
Our continued cost out and operational excellence initiatives have helped drive this improvement.
On a trailing 12 month basis adjusted EBITDA improved 8% to $115.1 million from $106.4 million for the same period in 2014.
On a quarterly basis adjusted EBITDA improved 7% to $28 million in Q2 from $26.2 million in Q1 2015 and this marks the fifth consecutive quarter of improved EBITDA margins.
These improvements demonstrate that despite current industry headwinds our long term cost out and operational excellence initiatives are delivering results.
Q2 2015 adjusted EPS was $0.37 a share an increase of 32% over $0.28 per share in Q1.
This improvement was primarily driven by increased sales the improvement in gross margins and improved SG&amp;A expenses.
In Q2 2015 currency negatively impacted sales EBITDA and free cash flow and based on the latest updates we believe that will continue in the second half of 2015 as the outlook for the euro to dollar has worsened.
Our net debt leverage ratio was 4.1x in Q2 substantially the same as 4.0x in Q1.
We expect our net debt and leverage to improve in the second half of 2015 as free cash flow becomes positive and we begin to pay down debt.
Lastly our 2.5 year $87 million sales growth investment program is approaching a start-up with plants coming online in the second half of 2015.
This program contains many new sales growth angles with positive financial returns.
Turning to Page 4 to see a scorecard of our performance in the quarter.
With the exception of weak sales in North America due to declining graphical grade market we are hitting on all cylinders.
Unfortunately we expect North American sales to continue to be soft in the second half of 2015 and in response to this we have taken additional fixed costs out of North America with the closure of our large plant in Warwick Quebec Canada.
We continue to expect benefits from our sales growth investment programs and our cost out initiatives as well as sales growth in Asia and South America.
Moving to Slide 5 the forecast as published by [Indiscernible] for the markets we serve has remained soft.
GDP grades of paper packaging tissue and non-paper markets remain stable and that covers about 75% of the market while rationalization curtailment consolidation continues in the graphical grade markets which make up the remaining 25% of the market.
Regional year-to-date May data versus the prior year period continues to highlight positive momentum in China Asia and South America which are both up a little over 1% respectively with Europe flat and North America down 1%.
The non-paper segments we serve primarily fiber cement and industrial non-woven are stable.
We expect second half market conditions to be very similar to the first half of the year and this is in concert with the new expectations being disseminated with our large customers.
In response to the changing market conditions Xerium’s counteracting sales strategy [Indiscernible] to enter new markets segments that represent the greatest revenue growth opportunities redeploy our sales and service assets to new and emerging geographic regions and launch new products aimed at the non-declining segments of the market.
We are on track with our initiatives.
On page 6 we have provided a timeline of the 10 main programs coming online.
These projects together have required $87 million of investment and expand the life 2.5 years and involve two new plants and eight expansions in seven countries.
This has been a broad program and we expect these projects to deliver over $25 million in adjusted EBITDA at full run rates.
This is a disruptive yet balanced growth program across multiple products and geographies powered by a record-breaking innovation program.
While we are excited about every single one of the projects I want to focus on three.
First and foremost we announced in mid-July that production at our Kunshan China press felt plant has started after two years of construction.
And consistent with our strategy this Greenfield facility is strategically positioned in the largest paper market in the world.
It is located in the heart of the Yangtze River paper-making region of China.
The central machine and the foundation in that plant the main machine weighs almost 1 million pounds and with that main machine the plant at that main machine is over 15 meters wide and we are able to service the largest pulp paper board tissue machines in the world building on our competitive advantages versus our industry peers.
We also moved and reincorporated Xerium’s Asia headquarters into the Shanghai free-trade zone.
This special Chinese government approval allows Xerium import and export at the lowest possible cost expedite customs processing provide shorter lead times for material transfer and enable maximum leverage of working capital.
Second we also announced in July that we commissioned a new business start-up in Corlu Turkey.
This will serve as a regional hub for Xerium to serve customers in Turkey south-east Europe and the Middle East.
We have served these regions for many decades as an exporter and will now service them locally with state of the art extrusion and polyurethane technology.
The plant has one of the largest grinding machines in the region and was built to handle rolls up to 80 metric tons in weight.
This will enable Xerium to service roles from any industry or application and also given that we will be local customers will immediately receive better prices and shorter lead times their price levels will come down as a result of logistic savings versus other options.
This new business start-up is part of our investment strategy to realign our global business model and factory locations to be better positioned on the fastest growing regional markets.
The third point I want to mention is our Piracicaba Brazil expansion including our plant restructuring efforts remains on track to be completed in late 2015 after three years and $9 million of investments.
We will have expanded that plant to offer the highest quality driers and upgraded our spiral dryer and woven drier capacity our forming fabric capacity and nonwoven fabric production as well as new designs and a technology transfer to South America.
This facility will significantly reduce lead times for our customers while enabling us to consolidate three mid-sized South American plants into one low-cost full scale plant in Piracicaba.
So as you have heard a few of these comments we have achieved some important milestones in the quarter and in this quarter to date and we have several more that we will reach in the second half of the year.
This will collectively complement our legacy operations and further optimize our global footprint locating us closer to key customers and reducing our lead times and cost to customers which will ultimately increase our competitive advantage and make us a far more attractive supplier to keep customers in fast growing regions of the market.
This will also not only expand the breadth of our product offerings and increase our exposure to the most attractive regional markets but it will also make us less vulnerable as a company to the less resilient type legacy markets.
So after 2.5 years of designing planning constructing and heavy investments we are now in the commissioning stage in the start up stage which will continue through the remainder of the second half of this year.
It is a major structural transformation from almost every perspective.
It has been a broad program and it will drive improvements and opportunities from many angles to enable us to grow sales and offset declining areas of the market.
The value of these investments exceeds $25 million of adjusted EBITDA.
Now I want to turn the call over for a moment to Bill Butterfield our Chief Technology Officer to discuss the innovation program which has been coupled together with these plant investments and which will be a key factor in driving future sales growth.
Bill? Thanks Harold.
Good morning everyone.
Moving to Slide number 7 I’m excited to bring you up to speed on the new – on our new products and intellectual property.
Our global technology focus is exclusively on new products for future growth.
I would like to mention just a few of those highlights as we go through this – of our new product development.
Xerium has over 700 roll compounds in our portfolio and we have accelerated our mechanical service offerings and are the global standard setter for suction roll refurbishment.
Our newest smart roll technology for suction rolls has provided tissue paper makers with knowledge never before available to them bringing the operation of the Yankee pressure roll and tissue machine.
We are now able to determine what their operational profile looks like on the Yankee driers used in tissue manufacturing which prior to this innovation was not possible.
There are other new and exciting smart roll features which are coming online as we speak today and we will be able to mention those in future calls.
In our newest machine clothing development Xerium has worked with our suppliers to develop two new yarn and fiber technologies only available to Xerium which have been successfully trialed in fiber cement and paper machine forming applications.
Our newest press felt introduction of QS or Quick Saturation technology has revolutionized the start up cycle of a press felt on a paper machine and is the next generation of our highly successful booster technology.
Xerium has a unique position of combining rolls and clothing together for total paper machine optimization.
As a result of our focus on improving our customers’ operations our engineering group has developed an optimization algorithm program called [resolve].
[Resolve] takes 400 plus input variables for an operating paper machine and links together the forming pressing and drying sections of the machine to predict operational performance enhancements.
We recently introduced this new technology at the RISI Asian Conference in Shanghai China.
Field trials have been extremely successful.
We continue to target our technology investment at future growth segments both in paper and non-paper markets with 32 new products that have either come online in the first half of 2015 or in the pipeline for development in 2015.
Of those products 41% are in packaging 25% are in paper 19% are in tissue and 9% are in pulp or you can see that we have focused on our growth markets.
In summary 94% of those new products are targeted for these growth markets.
Now for an update on Xerium’s patents and intellectual property program.
This aggressive development activity has led to a growing patent portfolio that protects Xerium’s R&amp;D investment in future-based business.
We have 425 patents as of June 30 2015 with 39 being issued in 2015.
We have 97 patents pending and 69 invention topics.
This accelerated intellectual property investment and protection is the direct result of increased new product development for future growth markets.
And now I will turn the call over to Cliff our EVP and Chief Financial Officer for his comments on the quarter and outlook.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 8 adjusted EBITDA grew to 23% of sales and the second half of 2015 adjusted EBITDA is expected to hit higher in both dollars and percent as we continue to deliver adjusted EBITDA margin improvement despite the sometimes difficult regional industry condition.
We are proud of our team’s success improving the adjusted EBITDA margin from 16% in 2012 to 23% today and we look forward to continued improvement in the upcoming stages of our transformation.
One Slide 9 which shows our basic adjusted EPS of $0.37 per share now that represents an increase of 32% over $0.28 per share in Q1 2015.
This improvement was primarily driven by the improvement in sales and gross margins and reduced SG&amp;A expenses.
And now turning to the final slide as we have mentioned today and in the past we are repositioning for the long term and transitioning from declining markets into new growth markets with short-term [Indiscernible] along the way which we experienced during the second quarter this year.
Consequently sales fell short of expectations in the quarter as the graphical grade markets were softer than expected especially in North America.
We expect this trend to continue but it will begin to be offset by sales growth programs that are currently coming online.
To add a little more color to this as we progressed through the first quarter we saw an improving sales environment.
The sales trend in Q2 was more positive as well but remained below our expectations.
So while we expect second half 2015 adjusted EBITDA results to improve over the first half of 2015 we expect full-year adjusted EBITDA results to be similar to last year results on a constant currency basis as the Q2 graphical grades market is not expected to recover.
Our guidance assumes a continuation of the weak graphical grade markets however if our sales recovers to historical norms we should perform better than the prior year.
The regional and product specific areas of weakness further confirms the importance of our 2.5 year $87 million sales growth investment program that is in the final stages of completion with 8 facilities coming online in the second half of 2015.
We remain firmly confident that the cost out and sales growth initiatives we have discussed will complement and offset legacy market performance and reposition us for future growth and we’re already underway with additional sales growth programs to continue our efforts.
Lastly as we transition to free cash flow positive in the second half of 2015 we will gradually begin our debt reduction initiatives.
Furthermore as we begin to pare back our sales growth capital expenditures this will translate into stronger free cash flow generation and will be aided by earnings growth from the full impact of our multi-year multi-pronged investment program.
That concludes our prepared remarks and we're now ready for your questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Katja Jancic from Sidoti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Katja.
Cliff can you provide more clarity as to your expectations regarding free cash flow and capital expenditures in the second half of the year? Yes as we said before our free cash flow will turn positive in the second half of the year.
We expect it to offset the reduction in the first half and we will also begin to pay down the debt beginning in the second half of 2015.
In the – I think in the first quarter you guided for a free cash flow of $9 million what is the expectation now? The expectation is that it would be more flat.
The issue here is in the second half we are going to do better because the Capex spending that we had was really front-end loaded in 2015.
That spending was related primarily to – a lot of that was related to Kunshan and the Corlu Turkey project.
Okay you are exposed to the Chinese market do you see any headwinds there? Our sales are growing in Asia Europe and South America.
Our only sales decline or sales miss is versus expectations here in North America and in China we have traditionally been capacity limited Asia region we are still doing well there.
Our main plant in Geelong Australia is sold out for the full year and our Kunshan plant which is coming online is also sold out for its initial order log.
So Asia is looking fine for us.
We don’t have a big market share so that might be part of that.
Others have bigger market shares and so they might have a different story but for us we have a very focused story.
We have the number one market share in tissue.
We are very focused on that and it is a very healthy part of the market.
So our Asia story is still doing quite good.
And – so free cash flow for the year Katja is going to follow EBITDA basically what Cliff said is our spending plan is on track full-year estimates are on track our projects are on track and our free cash flow is going to follow our EBITDA a little bit.
And if the second half is like the first half our results are going to be similar to last year.
If we get some recovery back to traditional norms in the second half we will still make our guidance and we will be better than last year.
So we just started to be conservative here in the short-term because there is short-term weakness in the graphical grade especially North America.
We saw that our public comparable company said exactly the same thing.
And so we are being consistent with that outlook.
So free cash flow is going to follow EBITDA a little bit but Cliff is right the second half can be strong free cash flow generation versus the first half.
Okay that is all from me.
Thank you.
Thank you Katja.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Melissa Tan from RW Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a follow up to the prior caller regarding to the free cash flow by my calculations if you are assuming similar EBITDA to last year I’m not really coming up with any free cash flow that you are able to pay down any debt this year unless your expectations for restructuring and taxes cash taxes has changed has been updated are you able to provide updated numbers for restructuring and taxes for this year? Thank you.
A couple of parts there.
One your first comment is right Melissa.
We consumed cash in the first half of this year due to the timing of our capital spending and the completion of the China plant mainly which has been the biggest user of our cash outflow for two years.
And that plant is online now and the only remaining spending is a 2% hold back on key machines that have a performance requirement.
But by and large we paid for the machinery now and so we consumed cash in the first half and we are going to generate cash in the second half to finish kind of flat which is what your comment is.
If it is better than flat it will because sales recovered in the legacy market somewhat to their prior norms that the graphical grade closures in the first half of this year were over two times what they had been running.
Albany suffered the same thing as us in that regard if you read their results.
So the legacy markets were quite fast and if there is no recovery in those markets we don’t see positive free cash flow.
Right now our expectation is to be flat to prior year which means in the second half we will have strong free cash flow generation to pay down the timing of the Capex in the first half.
On the taxes question Cliff can you take that one? Sure.
Our cash taxes were a little heavier in the first half.
We expect the full year cash tax rate to be around 30% which is consistent with what we have been running prior to this last six months.
Thank you and okay and the next question relates to given that the – you do expect the second half to be better but I guess giving your prepared remarks you were seeing a weakening euro and the markets in general are softening I mean what makes you confident that you are able to offset the softening market with some of these new production that is coming online? Our guidance right now explicit into it is that we don’t expect sales recovery.
The only thing that we expect the second half to benefit from is the cost reductions that we have already done like the closure of the Warwick plant which is quite significant and other actions like that.
On recovery of free cash flow that is primarily tied into the timing of our capital spending which was front end loaded.
It will not happen in the second half.
So we don’t expect to pick up in our legacy markets in the second half.
What we do expect is contribution from our offsetting programs and we already have an indication that that will happen due to our initial bookings we have had in both Turkey and Kunshan and our new plant.
So we expect to more than offset softness in those markets.
We don’t expect the legacy markets to come back in the second half.
That is our outlook.
We could be wrong.
And if they do [Indiscernible] if they do come back we will hit our guidance as we previously thought but we need to be conservative right now because in the short term the markets have been quite tough although our sales did increase in the second half and the second quarter like we thought they would they did not increase as much as we expected.
And so we are flattening out our expectations a little bit here in the short term.
Sure and I think Cliff you mentioned EBITDA similar to 2014 this was not in the press release but you added in on the constant currency basis so if we’re just assuming including currency which means that EBITDA could actually be lower than 2014 is that a reasonable assumption? It is going to be around there with or without currency.
Currency of our last guidance is negative but it is negative of about $1.5 million.
So it is in the same ballpark.
We have got some offsetting actions that we feel like we can take.
So we are being a little bit general about that but we expect to come in closer to prior year.
Thank you and just the last question regarding your sales growth investment programs you are citing $87 million for the next 2.5 years can you give a breakdown for the different projects.
I think in the press release you just gave breakdown for the costs but not the sales expectations? Okay the spending – the spending the investment required on those projects those 10 projects was $87 million.
That is how much money we spent on new machines building expansions.
It has been in the preceding 2.5 years we spent that money.
And we have culminated the majority of the spending in the first half of this year.
So that is the amount of money we have spent to put in sales brokerage [positioning] programs.
The benefit that occurred on that spending is over $25 million of incremental EBITDA.
That is the return.
So if you look at the IRR of the projects there is a spend and there is an EBITDA benefit – a free cash flow benefit of it.
With regard to individual projects in their size we have not released that data and you don’t really want to get into that level of knowledge.
There is competitive reasons for that mainly so we really don’t want to give out competitive data.
Cliff did you have anything to add on that? Yes the press release does include the investment the investment programs by location and projects.
So you can see that.
For example 48 million of the 87 is Kunshan so we lay out the general numbers but the Harold’s point we don’t get into lot of the details.
The benefit we write-off the spending.
And the benefit is not laid out by project which – but overall the IRRs are running around low 30% range.
Okay thanks.
I’ll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Adam Ritzer from Pressprich your line is open please go ahead.
Alright good morning guys.
Could you give us a little more detail about your 2016 CapEx plans on a maintenance basis plus what you have left on restructuring and growth spend? Well we haven’t given any 2016 guidance yet but I can tell you that number one we’re committed to fixing the company and that company if you spin back a few years we really very stuck in terms of we didn’t have any weightier grow and was new markets and new areas that were doing well we were kind of tracking.
So we did spend money the board decided to fix that problem and it’s fixed when it’s fixed though going sideways like we are right now that’s not the program.
If we get any recovery in the markets these legacy markets versus what’s happening right now that will be one thing.
But if we don’t we’re going to keep our you put on the gas here because our number one goal at the top of the pyramid is have a growing company and we can do that when the globals are on market and their segments are growing.
With regards to maintenance CapEx that’s a good question Adam it is going down somewhat because we’ve been closing plans.
We’ve closed [indiscernible] and we’re underway although we haven’t announced that we’re closing two more.
So we have a way to keep our gross margins and EBITDA is growing up for the next four quarters just on cost on flat sales.
So maintenance is coming down as we retire machines.
Keeping the best ones and we’re discarding the others.
So we do have an expectation that maintenance will come down.
On new project side of it we’re going to wait till we get closer to the end of the year and recalibrate.
If we’re doing okay I think we might toggle to balance between sales growth and debt pay down if we’re not doing okay the board is firmly committed to fixing the problem first and that’s what we do.
Sitting here today I’m more positive on that I see we’ve a lot of positive indicators internally as well with orders and backlog and what not.
But I don’t really want to get specific yet out on 2016 that we had our five year plan and our five year expectations we’re still very confident of what we’re doing we’re confident in our long term plan right now.
We’re not – we’ve bad quarter our sales increased less than we thought our EBITDA increased less than we thought.
We are still headed forward here and pretty much all of our bad news is about America.
And North American markets [indiscernible] and with the outlook for the dollar and euro to go in parity it's not getting any better and so our outlook there is that there is going to be stress in the North American market until this plays out.
Okay.
So let me ask you as Albany on their call you said “there were taking it back by the drop in the newsprint side of the business.” What gives you guys confidence that that business will bounce back a little bit instead of a keep declining more steeply than the growth areas of the world are growing to kind of keep revenues flat have you guys had suggested in the past? Yes that's our guidance.
Our guidance is that there will be no recovery.
I mean that's why we have adjusted in our expectations for their we expect North America to be really tough all year and I am not exactly sure what Albany’s guidance is maybe you talked to those guys Adam I don't know.
But we expect no change in North American business conditions and it is factual it's not subjective.
So if you look at you can get this data you look at the profitability of our customers that make these graphical grades they are low number.
If you look at the operating rates of the machines that make these it's not a good number.
If you look at the amount of machines that are closed and have not affected operating rates and you can do simple math on how many machines you think need to be taken out and if you look at the net export statistics on U.S.
based graphical grade producers there is still net exports but it's been coming down hard and it could go to zero and it could flip it could go to net import on a graphical grades of paper.
So we don't expect any relief in the second half on the graphical grades in the United States not and that's why we are being conservative with our guidance right now.
Okay I understand.
Yes go ahead.
So I mean so you guys are talking about a $25 million increase in EBITDA from the 87 million spending in projects when would you expect to see a full year of that type of EBITDA run rate? That's a good question.
On balance we have assumed two and half to three years fill rates to get to the craft utilization that we wanted in our projects without disrupting the markets.
So it could barrel in and do damage but that's not really the way we wanted to do it.
Bill Butterfield and his folks or he is in the front of the pack here because fundamentally we need to have a product that will make the customer switch to us and as we significantly know what they’re using and so we are trying to win these things position by position at our price.
And it's been going well and so I would say full run rate is two and half years from now kind of a time Adam.
Okay so that would be like 2018 and that EBITDA would be on top of let’s say your guidance this year of roughly 115 so we are looking at 115 growing to 140 assuming revenues are kind of flattish than the rest of the market is okay but not great? Yes you are right.
Your last point is right Adam the real poker here is what's happening in the legacy markets because they’ve been kind of steadily declining for a long period of time almost 20 years I think newspaper circulation piece in the United States in 1960 something like that.
So this steady decline and the decline this year was not steady and it was commingled with our very very very strong dollar.
So that's why we are very nervous on adding numbers like that because it assumes a steady legacy baseline and it hasn't been steady.
It's been declining Cliff do you want to make another comment there? Yes.
I think the $25 million of EBITDA is not fully incremental.
It's really going to offset some of the continuing issues we’re [indiscernible] continue in the future we don't expect it to be as heavy beyond 2015 as we had pretty bad year this year as far as no closures but we do expect that we will continue and the efforts we are taking are going to offset that and hopefully add something more to the top-line but it's not fully incremental.
And we intend to give an annual outlook on that by looking back what those legacy markets are doing and reading the third-party projection.
So what happened this year to us and I am sure Albany looked at the third parties that the third-parties that gave projections on the market and they were battling this battling this to North America.
Okay.
And my last question I had I am sorry to ask so many questions.
You guys got a take-over offer from American securities so call it a few months ago I guess you didn't share that with your shareholders but I am wondering if maybe you could share that with us now and discuss with us why you kind of rejected that out of hand and what went on in your thinking about that? Yes that's a fair question Adam.
Yes you saw the 8-K and its self explanatory and obviously I guess to surmise that we did review that properly as a board of directors and decided that the value offered was to me what we thought the company was worth.
So you can kind of read between the lines here and we were – we are not for sale.
We are obviously a public company and someone can come after like any public company but their offer was deemed to be inadequate and therefore they’ve released what they did.
They were required to do.
And so they follow the rules and we did too.
So we are just doing our tenure.
Okay.
But I am saying could you share with us what you thought was inadequate was it something in line where it was trading was it something with to and front of it I mean what do you think is inadequate at this point in time? That we do have those numbers but that definitely is private or maybe you probably know that.
We want to make sure all the shareholders on the phone here have a big pay-day if that ever happened and you can just guess it wasn't big enough for you guys to be happy.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
I will get back in the line.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Adam.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Anthony Young from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys thanks for taking the question.
Just on the Quebec closure I think that slide 8 you guys gave us great given some breakdown on margins and so forth I mean on that Quebec facility you probably guys disclosed specifically what the margins were I mean was there any sort of EBITDA contribution or was it half of what the broader business was or how come you sort of give out where margins may go after the closure of this facility? Okay.
The Warwick plant has made presence for a long long time.
And we track our total cost per unit bearable cost per unit fixed cost per unit in a lot of different ways.
And that plant was almost twice the cost per unit as our two low cost plants and the prices are roughly the same.
We can't charge higher because it's made in Warwick Quebec for instance.
So it was just a profit compression issue.
We moved the loads to our lower cost plants and the machines have been orphaned.
They are outstanding machines and we intend to keep them and we have internal plans to move them to our low cost plants and increase percentage of our production at low cost so that we can win more battles or survive any legacy market declines and offset it.
With regards to EBITDA contribution there has been none so far.
We had a closure on the end of the second quarter.
It was a full stop closure.
We covered every single person.
We moved every single order and right now we just turned the lights off and we have all of our equipment there only we moved the production loads.
So we immediately saved all that money.
So we save the money of the team that were there salaried people and then we net – we are net saving on variable labor hours and cost per labor hour because it was high cost per unit on top of it.
So a nice big win for us and then we have a further use of the machines to move them and give us another opportunity stepping some of the opportunity that further reduce our cost by redeploying them to low cost plant.
Okay.
And then I have to assume that the new China facility sort of will be a low cost facility? It’s definitely our low cost facility and they are in production now.
They are making their first pieces.
They have gone through their machine commissioning and knock on work so far so good and they are booked up for quite a ways right now.
And we are off for running as we staff up and go to continuous operation so the plant is in full ramp-up right now and it's already delivering saleable goods as is Turkey.
Okay.
I am not sure if you guys benchmark your facility this way but I mean with that China plant be in the first quartile like the global cost curve or the best plant in the world or how should we think about that facility as far as margins will go? It's a good question.
We definitely benchmark the facility a lot before we started the project.
We benchmark an equivalent to the best two plants in the world so we believe we will be tied for first two other plants that are also in China for the lowest cost thresholds in the world.
Okay.
And then just final thing on the bondage you guys have that are callable now are they still plans to refinance those? Well there are two things.
First of all I can't give you a strong argument to not give that and number two is definitely we have a very strong Bangkok market and the bond markets been kind of weird over the last month if you follow that even if you take oil and the energy out the high yield market trade and wide but for sure we want to refinance our debt sometime within the next year.
And we are always monitoring the market conditions and we are right now as well.
Okay.
Thanks for taking the questions guys.
Thank you Anthony.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Anne Warehime from Invesco your line is open.
Please go ahead.
My questions have been asked.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Sir your line is open if you have your phone on mute you can un-mute your phone please.
Our next question comes from John Koerber from Bennett Management.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good day.
On slide 5 and 7 you do address the non-paper segments of your business.
You say fiber cement nonwoven you call it satisfactory and then on page 7 you said that 25% of your future growth or new products for future growth is in non-paper.
Could you guys talk a little more of what you mean by satisfactory and am I to assume that the product is 25% is the growth you’re anticipating going to be 25% of all future growth? Okay.
Starting with page 7 that's really a breakdown of our new product agenda and 25% of our products and you are correct have been in nonwoven and fiber cement.
The reason for the disproportionately high amount of product development in that area is because our products needed to be significantly better in order to win technical run-offs and there were markets that we are not – neither market are we a leader in them.
We have a competitor who is the leader in both of them and we needed our products to be better and that led us to assign people it led to us to hire some people led us to join the nonwovens’ institute in North Carolina state and do a lot of actions here to get behind our fiber cement and nonwovens product line.
We have done that we have issued those products but they are not going to be 25% of our sales.
They were 25% of our product development activity because we had a need for a lot of emphasis there but non-paper sales at our company right now are less than 20%.
We are trying to grow them with these initiatives and we are also growing our paper business by getting out of non-graphical but by getting out of graphical grades and into non-graphical grades so on satisfactory which your question was on page 5 kind of what the legend we have looked at what our customers say about their markets and we have looked at what the competition has to say about the markets.
And satisfactory on fiber cement nonwoven means that these markets are both on track with the expectations given at the beginning of the year so they are both growing 3% to 5%.
We are not impeded by sales growth in fiber cement or nonwoven due to the core market.
We are only impeded by our product performance and our activity.
So we have a good market environment in both of them.
Both of them have satisfactory market conditions for us to perform.
In the case on page 5 you see the counter example on newsprint and printing and writing both of those markets have weak conditions for us to be able to perform according to our forecast in our previous guidance.
So it rolls by here it's the first time we’ve had this significant type of weakness under way and that weakness globally has dragged down the OEM new machines business too which is the big one for us especially on the rolls side.
As a follow-up would it be fair to say that because you said you have put in the time to develop better product in non-paper that you have a better product now than your number one competitor will you be taking the magic words take share here do you see that or not? Well there is two – both fiber cement nonwoven both of these actually are market they are putting new machines in.
So these are growing markets and fiber cement market mainly not in North America 80% of that market is outside of North America nonwovens business is global.
So they are little bit different.
Bill Butterfield are you still able to speak? I am.
Can you make the comment Bill regarding how our products line up in those two segments versus the market leaders? Yes I think that we have made some great strides in both of those market segments.
The non-paper for fiber cement we have a new product there and I referenced that in my remarks earlier about having some new fiber technology yarn technology that is yielding some excellent field trial results.
So we feel we are really strong in that product line and that we are not second to anybody with that.
In nonwovens we are still making gains in our product technology in nonwovens.
We feel like we still need to continue to pursue further development of course in those products.
There were eight non-paper new products developed and launched in the first half of 2015 and that split was primarily between – it's about 50:50 split between fiber cement nonwovens and roll covers.
So we think we are the strongest in roll covers.
We have one of the strongest products in fiber cement and I think to be fair we can continue to grow our product line in nonwovens.
Or said differently John in both of those markets we have a long way to go financially.
I think Bill has fixed our technical issues which caused us to be in second place and now we are actively gaining positions in both of those and we do have strong intentions to grow those business financially speaking in terms of more sales more EBITDA so we are not caught up we are not where we want to be in either one of those products in terms of how much business has been to our baseline.
So we are still chasing both of those.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Harold Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you very much everyone for your proper questions your insightful questions and we are thankful that you’re following the company and supporting it.
We are very confident here and what our actions are to turn the company around and make it better.
The quarter was a little better than we thought.
We thought the quarter was going to be a little better than Q1 and it was but it wasn't as good as we expected.
So being conservative so I thought honestly anyone here with the full year expectation we still have an internal plan to do what we said in the first place but we think it's unrealistic right now to guide in that manner given how much softness we have had in the short term.
So sorry for the bitter bad news there but that's how the short-term looks.
Long-term looks strong as it has we’ve got everything wrapping up now.
We are quite excited about our new plant there coming online.
We have opening ceremonies in October for both of the brand new plants and we have opening ceremonies for the other eight plant expansions in the second half of this year.
So we are on the verge of a startup of bunch of broad set of new ways for our company to have better top-line performance.
And thank you very much for calling into today and with that I will end the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time.
At the request of Xerium Technologies this conference call on Thursday November 5 2015 will be webcast and recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference call over to EVP and Chief Financial Officer Cliff Pietrafitta.
Your line is open.
Thank you operator good morning everyone.
I would like remind everyone to please refer to the press release regarding our financial results for Q3 2015 filed on November 4 2015 and a corresponding 10-Q with particular reference to the safe harbor notice contained in the text of the press release about our forward-looking statements and the use of certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and the associated reconciliation of such measures to GAAP under Regulation-G.
Those same statements also apply to our remarks on this conference call.
Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in the release and in our SEC filings.
For a full discussion please refer to our earnings release as well as our SEC filings including our latest 10-K.
Now I will turn the call over to Harold Bevis our President and Chief Executive Officer who will provide opening remarks.
Harold? Thank you Cliff good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s third quarter 2015 results.
And at this time I would like to refer you to the business update slide deck that was posted to our website for this call.
I'd like to start off with several significant highlights for the quarter.
On slide 3 we’ve summarized results.
Third quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA improved to $28.3 million from the second quarter and was 24% of sales marking the sixth quarter in a row of year-over-year improvements in EBITDA rates.
Net sales were about $118 million a decrease of 7% in constant currency; I’ll get back and talk about that in a little while together.
The commodity break decline clearly outlay the fairly positive assets for the paper markets and non-paper markets.
Gross margins excluding restructuring charges were 41% of net sales in Q3 marking the 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year improvement.
Q3 2015 adjusted EPS was $0.30 a share a decrease of 30% from $0.43 a share in Q3 of 2014 this was primarily driven by lower sales volumes.
Partially offset by favorable currency and cost-saving initiatives.
In the third quarter the strong US dollar had a very negative impact on our sales and free cash flow and our net debt ratio came in at 4.3 times.
We expect this ratio to improve as we complete our spending on sales growth projects.
What I would also like to point out that we completed the refinancing of our ABL facility.
This new facility provides more flexible terms at a lower cost of borrowing and lastly two plant six plant expansion have come online this year creating new sales growth avenues with accretive financial returns.
On slide 4 this represents our scorecard of our performance in the quarter.
Third quarter was a good quarter except for some weaknesses in the market that I’m going to talk about.
Our sales repositioning cost repositioning working capital efficiency programs are all on track.
However we still are experiencing sales declines primarily in the commodity grade wafer production and we expect the current market condition to persist in the 2016.
This market condition reconfirm the need and importance of sales repositioning programs that will move equipment people and know-how into growing markets.
We are well on our way with ten programs that will more than offset this commodity grade declines.
In addition we'll continue to reposition our cost structure to increase profit rates and we’re well on our way to installing the 2016 programs already which will have cost savings level equal to those in 2015.
Now I’m going to turn the call over to Dave Pretty our President of Europe and North America to discuss the industry outlook.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
Moving to slide 5 which represents the global production forecast for the markets we serve.
As published and sourced from Nomura we know that the 2016 market outlook is expected to be similar to 2015 market condition.
In addition as published and sourced from Nomura regional year-to-date August production data versus the prior year period continues to highlight positive trends in China Asia up 0.7% while North America impacted by news printing writing is down 1% Europe down slightly 0.2% and South America is down slightly up 0.4%.
The non-paper segments we serve primarily in the fiber cement and industrial non-woven segments still remain in stable condition.
As Harold noted in response to the declining market conditions we are aggressively repositioning our assets our people and know-how into the growing market segments and geographies not only in North America but globally.
Our strategy has been to enter new markets that present greatest revenue growth opportunities redeploy our assets to new and higher geographic regions and modest products aimed at growing segments of the market.
I would like to conclude noting that we are track on all of these initiatives especially in North America and now I'll turn it over back to Harold.
Thanks Dave.
On slide 6 you can see our repositioning program which is a permanent sales restate for the company and focus on the diversification away from declining commodity grades of paper.
It involves two new plants eight plant expansion in seven geographies and 39 new products.
These efforts will have the capability of generating incremental $50 million in sales and $25 million in adjusted EBITDA for run rates.
In the third quarter of 2015 we’ll continue to make strides in these programs and commission four machine clothing plant integration and the start-up of our two new plants in Kunshan and Çorlu.
Our global renovation program involved facilities in Kentville Canada; Gloggnitz Austria; Asahi Japan; Piracicaba Brazil they will enable to serve customers and new segments more efficiently with better lead-times and global availability of our innovative and rapidly growing portfolio technology.
This initiative will also better position Xerium to aggressively pursue growth in popular products growing grades and growing regions that are outpacing global industry growth trends.
Additionally we commissioned the Kunshan plant which is a press felt plant in the third quarter of 2015 after two years of construction.
That strategic located facility is in the centre of the largest papermaking region in the world which is expected to represent nearly one half of global paper-base product productions by the end of the decade.
It's already gaining traction with customers that Xerium previously served from Europe four brand new customers.
Lastly the Çorlu Turkey plant is ramping up production in Q4 of 2015 as well.
This new plant location also took over two years ago to equip and commission.
The facilities contain start-of-the-art roll and serviced equipment from Europe and Xerium has transferred all of its set fractions and patented technologies to the region.
For the first time ever machine owners in the region will receive locally provided locally optimized state-of-the-art technology and state-of-the-art polyurethane technology.
While we've been active in our renovation and expanding geographically we've also been making different and necessary decisions such as our recently announced closure of our Middletown Virginia facility.
This is the second closure announcement in the last four months each for different reasons but ultimately we continue our goal of maximizing our spending and investing.
Our existing North American network of roll manufacturing and services facility is in healthier regional markets and we will observe Middletown customer orders.
This will enable these facilities operate to higher utilization rates and benefit from the cost structures going forward.
Similar to the work machine clothing assets the equipment will primarily be relocated outside of North America to other geographies that are growing and in need of additional equipment and in the need of additional services.
In summary we have reached some core milestones and we'll remain confident in our plans to achieve consistent sales going forward that will more than offset commodity rate declines.
Now I will turn the call over to Bill Butterfield our EVP and Chief Technology Officer for his comments on renovation activities.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
I'm happy to bring you up to speed on our new products and intellectual property.
I mentioned during our last quarterly call our newest smart roll technology for suction rolls which has proven to provide tissue paper makers with knowledge never before available to them.
They are now able to determine what the operation of profile looks like on the Yankee driers used in tissue manufacturing.
In real-time under full operating conditions which prior to this innovation was not possible.
We believe that every tissue maker in the world with pressure roll covers both suction and non-suction will be excited about this new technology.
Referring to slide – to the left-hand side of slide number 7.
I mentioned during our last call that we were introducing a new farming fabric material which has reduction in energy and at the same time an increase in wear resistance.
Our first few child of this new and exciting product technology breakthrough have demonstrated this to be possible with savings in both energy and increased likely result.
I will provide some update on various patterns which is on the right hand side of page 7 this aggressive development activity led to a growing patent portfolio to protect our RMV investment in our future base business.
We currently hold over 400 patents with 48 being issued in 2015 so far and 96 patents are pending.
This accelerated intellectual property investment production is a direct result of our increased new product development aimed at new growth markets.
With both our new products for future growth are widely expanded in intellectual property portfolio Xerium is having significant success with holding new positions and year-to-date this is well over 1 000 new position gains for future sales.
Now I will turn the call over to Cliff Pietrafitta our Chief financial Officer for his comments on the quarter and outlook.
Thanks Harold.
On slide 8 year over year adjusted EBITDA rates increased for the sixth quarter in a row to 24% of sales driven by a strong adjusted EBITDA rate of 31% in our mission clothing business.
We anticipated this solid forward momentum will continue into 2016 with our sales repositioning programs coming online for expanded patent technology and our new customer wins.
Slide 9 shows that our Q3 2015 basic adjusted EPS of $0.30 per share declined from $0.43 per share in Q3 of 2014 largely as a result of sales declines in the commodity grades which outweighed improvements in other paper markets.
However our repositioning strategy is addressing these declines and we should be less susceptible for this as our transformation continues to be executed in the strategy.
I'll now turn to the final slide.
In 2016 sales are expected to start trending up as our 10 sales programs come online.
These programs will more than offset the commodity grade declines we have discussed throughout this call.
Our main short-term exposure areas are the machine clothing and the commodity grade declines which were stronger than the improvements in other paper markets in Q3 2015 and were evidenced by mill closures that were served by Xerium.
Roll sales will be flat for the entire year of 2015 but will grow in 2016 with our new products new locations and new services coming online.
Q4 adjusted EBITDA is expected to be flat to Q3 and full-year adjusted EBITDA is expected to be approximately 110 million as the commodity grade declines continue throughout the remainder of 2015 and into 2016.
However our equity value creation plan is on track firmly resetting sales from the commodity grades.
Our focus areas are rolls mechanical services pulp nonwovens fiber cement dryers packaging tissue and lastly high growth markets.
2015 free cash flow generation is on track to improve and is accelerating.
In summary we remain confident on our repositioning programs and our strong equity value creation.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we are now ready for your questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Katja Jancic with Sidoti &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Cliff you mentioned you expect sales to start trading up in 2016 what percentage are you looking at? It's kind of in dollars is the way we looked at it so far.
Our basic game plan is to have our new initiatives more than offset the declines and we haven't finished our plan for 2016.
We are just going through the initial phases of that but instead of being flat to down for 15 it will be flat to up from now on because these programs have come online they’re all contributing now.
There are two projects the expansion of Neenah Wisconsin plant and the Griffin Georgia plant are coming online this month and they are already full and we all have initial orders and loads for this.
So the contribution of those will more than offset the declines in ’16 if the declines in 16 are like that in ‘15.
We're honing in on the final math now.
Percentages we’re not at that point yet Katja.
We will give it out more when we have but we’re not done with our ’16 plans yet.
Harold can you talk a little bit more about the Chinese plant how's that ramping up how much could it add in the next couple of years? Yes.
That plant has been designed to generate 7 million to 8 million of EBITDA.
It’s exceeding expectations right now.
The largest customer in the plant is a brand-new customer previously unattainable and unserved by our company.
The company has been served locally by our competition.
They are one of the top paper board tissue producers in China and we are proud to say that that project is doing what we wanted to do which is the operational unlocking of business for us.
We had the technology we had the knowhow but we couldn't get to there on price value and that plant is really doing well for us.
Thank you for asking and the same Turkey plant is exceeding expectations quite a lot.
We have a lot of rolls in the plant already and so both of those are really going to be powerful generators of the EBITDA for us and the Turkey facility should give us a few million of EBITDA between the two overtime and they are on track.
Now you have been very successful at expanding your margins and you mentioned that we can continue seeing this how much more can you expand? Well the cost outs next year are going to be CapEx light.
We are really going after labor productivity and we had a lot of opportunities to do that.
With our closures we've been able to put machines online to avoid overtime.
The cost out target for next year is approximately the same as this year.
So we've been doing around $20 million a year and we don't see -- we see already that we can keep doing with that keep generating that type of cost out with less spending.
Okay that's all for me.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Melissa Tan with R.W.
Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
Just to follow up on the last caller’s question regarding giver sales expectation for 2016 the mention about flat to up is that excluding currencies or inclusive of potential currency headwinds? That excludes currency and if you look at our profile versus which them which they were very public with their geographic exposure to declining publication grades our exposure is quite different.
The strong dollar it impacts our company more than.
We have higher market shares for at risk grades in the United States.
They have a higher percentages in euro.
The strong dollar really had an impact on us this year and this quarter.
If the euro would have been strong versus the dollar you would have had flipped outcomes between us.
But that isn't what happened.
So the strong dollar where we have our strong shares was a direct hit to us in the short-term it’s short-term only because we already expected that in both markets for that volume to go away but the impact was quite severe this year and this quarter.
If you look at how both of us were doing for the first six months both of us were down about 2%.
In this quarter year to date they are still down we’re down a little bit more.
There was 15 closures in the United States in the third quarter and there were direct hits to us.
So when we talk we definitely talk in constant currency because currency matters a lot to us given our historical amount of business we had in US dollars flat to us is constant currency with fundamental you’re going to be offsetting those commodity grade closures with our sales initiatives that are well underway and already on track with what we want them to do.
Okay thank you.
So I guess one way to understand why the third quarter was weaker than expected I guess there were more closures than management expected and usually that's leaning towards the fourth quarter but this year was in the third quarter you mentioned ‘15 plants? You’re correct Melissa.
The strong dollar impacts on the US paper trade was really severe for those companies who were involved in it the industry was being very low-cost imports.
It was definitely a buyer's market for low-cost paper and [indiscernible].
These companies that buy these amount products these are buyers’ market because they had the traditional suppliers in region and then they had very low-cost imports coming in.
So we track this precisely to the machine and there is carry in to the quarter from the prior three quarters and there is new fresh closures in the quarter and the fresh closures in the quarter were quite significant in the US and were direct hits to us specifically just looked at who was on what machine and it was quite mild in Europe.
We had almost no closures there and like I said if we would have had different currency environment this might have been quite different but we view this business was going to go away that's why we initiated the sales repositioning project.
We are kind of long-term surprised it was just a short-term project for us.
So it just confirms what we are doing and rolls for us were up almost 10% in services in North America.
Definitely machine clothing stands for us and we don't see the conditions changing if you look at currency outlook the dollar and euro which is a biggie it’s not going to improve if you're talking about the US dollars it’s going to remain favorable if you are a European exporter.
So we expect the pressure to continue and if you look at our customers Q3 announcements and [indiscernible] they see this dynamic holding also in terms of being very susceptible to low cost imports.
Right.
So I guess with all these backdrops what does the management think now in terms of the EBITDA growth potential going forward I guess there has been a step back in 2015 do you expect growth in 2016 in spite of everything? Yes we expect very healthy growth going into next year and it's really coupling of our - another strong year cost out as well as the contribution of our sales projects that are coming online.
So it is a short-term dynamic for us but definitely we are looking at strong improvement in ‘16 versus ‘15 on EBITDA.
De-leveraging we are also cash flow – returned to cash flow positive now that will continue to accelerate.
So the basic plan is still on track and solid and ramping up now and so it will – ‘16 will be quite different than Q3 of this year and so we remain very confident on what we are doing and we specifically see that customers is earning overall services from us as they go through this struggle in this environment they are outsourcing more and more to us and it is really – we saw that happening it’s where we expand in to our major rolls facilities in the US and absolutely we've got in front of that so we're the recipient of their outsourcing is well.
So rolls business is doing fine.
It's not declining it's only going to be expanding and our smart roll technology is really ramping up fast especially this year.
Okay good.
And I think last time you mentioned you expect to pay down 2 million of term loan this year is that still a goal or? Yes.
We still have a goal in the fourth quarter.
We are required going to be cash flow positive and we have a goal to pay down debt.
The amount is going to depend on the sales rate that happen here in the quarter and we've been not seeing the stress coming out.
So we’re being careful to not get precise guidance but in terms of our spending it's absolutely coming down we are finishing projects and we are not initiating new ones.
So we know our cash flow we know our income and cash flow we now we’re controlling the amount of out flowing cash flow.
It’s not if it’s when.
Is it in December is it in January February not sure.
It’s like we are right on it.
Okay thank you.
And just last question and then I will get off.
It’s regarding China.
I guess with everything that’s going on over there your management is still seeing growth in your markets.
You haven’t seen any pullback in orders or seen that trend going into 2016? No in terms of the economic policies in China with [indiscernible] new normal it’s what it’s called locally on the ground I just got back from a three-week trip and I was in China last week and the focus of the economy to turn towards personal consumption benefits our industry and primarily serves consumables disposables and so that’s not good for our industry.
In terms of the microcosm know of paper tissue board manufacturing the issue in China really is supply and demand.
There is – the demand is still growing 4% 5% 6%.
The supply though there is too much supply there is too many machines in the country.
And so there is some mandated government closures of some of the straw based pulp machines and high energy usage machines but there is still too many good machines as well and that in order to stay away from any trouble on that one is picking your customers wisely.
We’ve done that.
The people we are focused on there that plant was specifically engineered for high end board and tissue.
And we have had a year-and-a-half of getting our approval and we started out the plant as planned with a big big board customer that had previously been served by our competition and so for us what we are doing is very small compared to the market very focused and surgical entry into that market and we’ve come in at the high end with our best technology and we’ve pre-sold it and with all the tracks but with regard to our specific projects we are doing fine.
Okay thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
You are welcome Your next question comes from the line of Adam Ritzer with Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Hey guys just want to – had a couple of follow-up questions if you don’t mind.
What’s your all-in cost on the China plant and the Turkey plant? Could you just tell us what that is? The cost of the China plant Adam we partnered with the Beijing government and they did a build-to-suit building for us we have to buy it in year 10 ten and a half years after the signing.
So the building the government kind of funded that for us it’s around 8 million and the total cash out for us Cliff is? It’s around 40.
About $40 million Adam And startup and working capital all the investment involved in getting the plant.
Yeah the CapEx part of it was? 32.
32.
Got it.
And what about Turkey how much did that cost you guys? Turkey was cheap.
Turkey we again got the partner build a dedicated purpose building for us and we moved equipment in from Germany that we already owned and it was about $3.5 million.
Okay got it.
The $110 million of EBITDA guidance is that expected to – could you keep that flat or does that have a negative trend and you are going to try and offset that with the additional $25 million of new business you are talking about? In terms of Q4? No I am just saying overall.
Your EBITDA year-over-year was flat $110 million to $110 million.
I know you are spending money cash restructuring to kind of keep that flat but how long could that go.
I mean is the $110 million basically your base run rate? I am just trying to figure out what that base run rate really is without the new business.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s good question.
So our outlook right now for ’16 is that the very severe environment of ’15 holds and so in terms of the decline of the commodity grade segments we are assuming that if it stays at this terrible rate and holds.
So the quarter that we are in is the base case with regard to the base business and we look at to it.
And that’s why we said Q4 we think is going to be flat to this quarter because we believe that the negative the carry-in we have into the quarter from fire closures and then new closures that are yet unannounced in the quarter will keep us at the same type of rate and therefore offset the sales growth from our projects.
Our cost-out program is quarterized and we’ve already taken the advance actions to make the ’16 happen we can see that with a lot of certainty and so those things are going to keep adding.
So we are at the base rate right now.
We haven’t had a lot of contribution for this.
Well literally the plant in China started up just a few weeks ago the same as the plant Turkey.
Okay I got it.
So when do you think this $25 million of EBITDA with the new lines when is the full run rate there.
Well we are going to get a big chunk of it next year.
We’ve in our internal models with the board we’ve committed to three year fills.
It looks like we are in front of that.
We are way in front of that so it’s going to be shorter than three years to honest and next year we are expecting to get a nice contribution from it over half.
Okay so you are thinking we have the $110 million if the $25 million could be all-in by ‘18 kind of we are $135 million of EBITDA 2018 kind of time frame is that kind of what you are saying? That’s exactly right Adam on month-to-month spending [ph].
Right.
So could you give us your outlook now on CapEx for next year? CapEx restructuring cost could you kind of break that down so we could figure out when we start seeing some free cash? Yes I will.
We don’t have firm plans for 2016.
We have an outstanding board of directors and we do have open questions and dialog amongst us but I can definitely bracket the conversation for you.
That would be great.
The biggest use of cash for us definitely has been CapEx and the second has been cash restructuring.
CapEx this year is on track to be around $50 million and cash restructuring is going to be around $13 million so $63 million of cash out the door.
And we are fundamentally aiming to cutting in half and the pace of that there is some puts and takes in the boardroom but we see clear path to doing that.
And so we are aimed at doing that next year Adam.
So we are not – it’s really is going to be step changing because these twin projects that we did were big chunk big uses of our money and we are dramatically curtailing the amount of that activity.
We were doing 10 in parallel literally we are doing 10 in parallel.
Okay so the $50 million how much of that was on these 10 new projects that are going to go away next year? The majority of it and the same with the restructuring.
I am sorry to keep interrupting.
Got ahead.
So the $50 million I mean of the $50 what’s maintenance? Maintenance is around $10 million to $12 million.
Okay so you think you are going to be at maintenance run rates in CapEx for 2016? Now if I could just bracket it for this cost it’s going to be more like $20 million to $30 million in total CapEx.
$20 million to $30 million total CapEx and where do you – is we still going to have another $10 million or so on cash restructuring or we pretty much done with it? We have little bit more to do next year because we are ramping up the projects and we do have one more big plant we are closing which is – Okay so may be $5 million to $10 million of restructuring is that fair to say.
That’s a good bracket yes that’s right Adam.
Okay so we are talking between the two next year $25 million to $40 million versus $63 million this year? That’s right.
Okay got it.
Adam even more than that because we’ve had to assume the lease in China.
That capital lease is how much Cliff? It’s 8.5 million.
It’s 8.5 million and we leased some of the equipment that we put into Neenah and then to Griffin and that was how much? Couple of million dollars.
So in addition to the cash part of this thing Adam we also took on about 10 million of leasing debt in the form of leases and we are not going to do that again either so it’s going to go from about $70 million down to the number you said.
Got it.
And I assume all that is going to be used to pay down debt you guys aren’t going to be looking at any kind of stock buybacks even at these levels right? No we are not going to do stock buyback.
We are definitely looking at doing what we said which is paying down debt.
Okay got it.
Okay I appreciate the color and sorry all the questions I am asking and I will get back in line.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Adam.
Your next question comes from the line of Alan Webber with Robotti Advisors.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just kind of a follow-up on the question before the growth CapEx that you talk about next year what’s that really for? We have one more big closure we want to do and if you look at the equipment in Middletown rolls equipment it is an outstanding plant.
They are not being close to the performance whatsoever.
It’s a wonderful plant and they have some of our largest equipment for servicing large rolls or large machines and we are moving that equipment to another country that is in need of a roll plant from us with our fancy roll covers.
And we are going to take that equipment and move it and per GAAP the cost to dismount move install ramp up that equipment is GAAP CapEx and it is a very – these are very big machines and they need special foundations and that is the majority of it.
Secondarily we do have some very fast payback productivity spending.
And then the third point is the Warwick closure that we did in Canada we closed profile of plant in Canada we are going to move that equipment to China.
So it’s basically the spending we need reposition our assets which is our old game plan to avoid buying brand new equipment and move good equipment we already have to a new location.
Okay.
I may have missed but did you talk about life for next year kind of given what you think kind of your prediction if you want to call that working capital requirements? Well I think Adam reckoned it very well the questions we just went through with Adam.
We have not given guidance for next year.
[indiscernible] as best as I can because we do have a protocol that I do respect my Board’s influx when we have open questions amongst us and the questions are always regardless of how fast we would reposition the company not if we do but how fast can we do it.
And we have been on a fast pace.
We have 10 projects in parallel that we have done because we could see the demise of these commodity rates coming at us.
I think we have done plenty and so we’re really going to fill that capacity up get that EBITDA in the house generate that cash flow pay down that debt and these are things that we said in our meetings that we have had externally.
Now what do you do next? What’s the next actual projects how big is it how swift is it.
We haven’t come to a final view but we know it’s going to be significantly less but we are not final with that.
So I don’t really want to give precise guidance but I think Adam reckoned it right.
Internally with our business plan we are staying with our game plan.
We really like what we are doing we see our rolls business growing we see our mechanical services business growing we see our non-commodity grade paper business growing.
As soon as we put our plant in China and ramp it up you nail a brand new huge customer in the region that we’ve been quoting on this is incremental business and profit to our company at very high accretive rates out of that Kunshan plant so exactly what our game plan is and why the customer doing it.
I don’t really want to give any more precise guidance on ’16.
We have our final Board meeting on ’16 in December so I can’t really give more than that has been said Alan.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Young with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just on the newsprint and writing grades how much exposure do you guys still have left there? And is there any difference between machine clothing and rolls as far as [indiscernible] than the other? Good question Anthony.
Thank you.
So I’m sure that you saw the percentage breakdowns that Albany gave in our initiated coverage almost saw that happen.
Our percentages are almost the same.
So our exposure to publication grades however they differ by region.
And that we have a very similar exposure on a percentage basis.
And our exposure is more on the PMC side and rolls.
Because you have got difference – if you look at the kind of the worst part of what’s going on right now in our process plan it’s PMC clothing and North America commodity grade products are operating faster than previous trend lines by a lot by multiples.
And so if you look at our exposure breaking it down for you Albany said they had 20% of their business was in the Americas for publication grade our numbers quite a bit higher than that.
They gave their percentage in Europe about 40% number is quite a bit lower than that.
And we are similar in Asia.
So we are exposed differently based on the currencies that are out there right now.
Did that answer the question? Yes it does.
That’s helpful.
And then as far as we call in the debt goes at 8.87 times I mean is that still part of the plan or? Yes it is.
We did – there is no rush on it we did – we are all watching the markets.
The whole single B issuer market kind of shutdown over the last months or two.
We have step down in our call premiums in June that’s significant.
So we are coming into the period of it’s better to wait and do it for cheaper because as you know refinancing costs are capitalized and that makes your debt go up.
And our stepdown is $5 million so it’s not any significant to us.
So we are monitoring the markets we have off of our debt right now and we are part of our debt in Europe part of our debt in the US we are watching both markets.
But that’s still something that we want to do yes that’s in our plans to do.
Okay.
Thanks for the questions guys.
Thank you Anthony.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Matt Reams with Buckhead Capital.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
How much of the sales decline is related to competitive forces? None really.
We track our positions won and lost.
Our positions lost are primarily due to closures and we are over a 1 000 positions won this year globally well over a 1 000.
So on a market share basis we are gaining market share.
I don’t think we are gaining against Albany if you look at their results but we are gaining against everybody else behind us.
And so the two of us I think are doing well versus non-public reporters because we track us to the machine level position level.
But I don’t – we are losing competitively we are running.
Okay.
Obviously the margins are expanding within the business so I would imagine that soon that the lost sales due to the commodity grades are at much lower margin relative to the company averages? That is the reverse of it.
If you look at if you kick currency out and look at constant currency we are returning a negative price mix and we are really high and find papers that are commodities now for the highest price products in the industry.
They are big pieces they are high-priced and they are going away.
So I would guess Albany’s margins were accretive so did ours and it’s really due to cost down cost containment which they are doing as well with their own program.
But we are suffering negative price mix at this segment off late.
Okay.
I think you mentioned briefly about Project 11 I don’t know if it’s related to the big plant closure that you expect to do next year.
But you said you’re repositioning the rolls in the pulp market you already have customers lined up can you explain a little bit more about the opportunities for that project? Yes you’re right.
Our next project 11 if you will is definitely is focused in on the pulp industry.
And it’s in another geography where there is lot of pulp mills and yes we have been working with the customers for over a year and half.
I personally have traveled to the region we do that stuff fast as we try to get letters of intent and we go – we put our own plant and we also are doing a warehouse on machine clothing and same thing we did in Turkey and so we put an aggressive sales force to call on the machines.
We are calling every part of the machine that we can service.
So said differently if we did not want to build a new plant in new location we probably would not have closed Middletown.
Middletown is a very good plant but the perfect equipment we need for servicing large pulp machines.
So we spent over a year and half with our customers in those regions feeding the market.
And so we’re well along the path with that project.
Okay great.
That’s all the questions I have right now.
Thank you.
Thank you Matt.
There are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back to Harold Bevis for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate the good questions today.
Thank you for calling in.
And we look forward to reporting our results in the next call.
With that we’ll end the call.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Xerium Technologies 2015 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question and answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
At the request of Xerium Technologies this conference call on Tuesday March 15 2016 will be webcast and recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Cliff Pietrafitta.
Thank you Sharon and good morning everyone.
I would like to remind everyone to please refer to the press release regarding our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 filed on March 14 2016 and our corresponding 10-K with particular reference to one the Safe Harbor noticed contained in the text of the press release about our forward-looking statements; and two the use of certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted EBITDA and the associated reconciliation of such measures to GAAP under Regulation G.
Those statements also apply to our remarks on this conference call.
Our actual results may differ materially from this indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those described in the press release and in our SEC filings.
For a full discussion please refer to our earnings release as well as our SEC filings including our December 31 2015 10-K.
Now I will turn the call over to Harold Bevis our President and Chief Executive Officer who will provide opening remarks.
Harold? Thank you Cliff and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us this morning to review Xerium’s fourth quarter and full year 2015 and 2016 outlook.
At this time I’d like to refer you to the business update slide deck that was posted to our website for the call and I’d like to begin by reviewing a few key points with you.
Please turn to Slide 3.
We have summarized key highlights regarding our full year 2015 results here.
We improved our operating profile in 2015 versus 2014 despite declining graphical markets.
While sales on a currency adjusted basis declined 4% in the year versus 2014 gross margin rates and adjusted EBITDA rates both improved after giving effect to one-time start-up costs at new facilities and inventory write-offs at closed facilities.
Gross margin improved by 30 basis points to 40.3% in 2015 and adjusted EBITDA rates improved by the same amount 30 basis points to 21.7% of sales in 2015.
So operationally speaking we successfully right-sized the organization while graphical grade sales were disappearing.
However going into 2016 we have increased the dollar size of our cost-out programs.
We anticipate similar decline rates in the at-risk market areas.
I’m happy to report that we completed the majority of our big ticket spending programs in 2015 as significant projects came online at the end of the year.
These included our new facilities in China and Turkey and expansions at our Griffin Georgia rolls plant our Kentville Nova Scotia plant our Gloggnitz Austria plant and our Piracicaba plant.
In addition we expect two other expansions in Neenah Wisconsin and Piracicaba Brazil to go live in the first half of 2016 and yet another major project a new China forming fabric operation to go live in the second half of 2016.
So our repositioning projects are coming online right now.
Turning to Slide 4 we have summarized key highlights regarding the quarter.
We do have lumpy quarter to quarter results and Q4 was not great.
Our financials were below our trim line due to weak graphical sales and a strong U.S.
dollar.
Adjusted EBITDA declined to $21.3 million or 18% of sales primarily as a result of the flow-through effect of the decreased graphical grade sales.
At the same time we maintained our SG&amp;A and R&amp;D spending after adjusting for non-recurring items as we completed these repositioning projects designed to offset these graphical market declines.
Sales were $115 million in the quarter declining 5% on a constant currency basis due primarily to the graphical grade sales declines.
Gross margins were also affected for 38% of sales in the quarter due primarily to graphical grade sales declines and adjusted EBITDA was $21 million as I mentioned or 18% of sales also down primarily due to graphical grade sales declines.
EPS was also dragged down with it for the same reason.
So as you can see we suffered higher than expected business declines at graphical grade paper production and it impacted our financials strongly.
The strong dollar also did not help and it continues to negatively impact our sales and free cash flow and will continue to influence our 2016 results.
Net debt was essentially flat in the quarter versus Q3 at $481 million.
However we did complete the majority of our capital intensive projects in the quarter and for the year with 16 projects in total including two new plants five plant expansions and the completion of nine facility closures.
Five further projects are underway and the company already has the primary equipment on hand and has been paid for.
Go-forward free cash flow will be different than in the past as we have completed the bulk of our repositioning spending.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave Pretty our President of Xerium Europe and Xerium North America to discuss our company’s market update.
Thank you.
Dave? Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
Moving to Slide 5 which represents the global production forecasts for the markets we serve as published by Numera we continue to see the same trends - GDP grades which represent approximately 75% of the market continue to grow while newsprint printing and writing grades which represent approximately 25% of the market continue to decline.
We see no real changes to those trends for 2016.
Closer to us for Q4 2015 the markets for the products we manufacture contracted approximately 5%.
Our sales for Q4 2015 contracted approximately 5% as did our closest publicly-traded competitor.
As we have highlighted during previous updates 75% of the markets we serve remain healthy.
Our focus is in the global tissue and packaging markets.
Our company’s penetration efforts into these segments is gaining traction and coming online.
We have and continue to reposition our assets as Harold mentioned.
We’re repositioning our sales teams our value-added technologies at the tissue packaging services mechanical services and the non-paper segments around the world.
Our strategy remains unchanged - enter new or underserved markets that present long-term revenue growth opportunities redeploy our assets and launch new products aimed at building new customer relationships delivering new sales wins and retaining our current client base.
I’d like to conclude that by noting that we are on track on all of these initiatives having landed approximately 1 000 new positions new sales positions in 2015 that will support our 2016 sales going forward.
I’d now like to turn it back over to Harold.
Thanks Dave.
Turning to Slide 6 you can see that the vast majority of our capital intensive repositioning projects were completed in Q4 of 2015.
This is a big enabler for our new wins and new sales programs.
These projects are focused on diversification away from declining graphical grades and converting new machine positions over to Xerium by having the right capacity in the right place market-leading product performance and locally competitive cost structures and lead times.
As stated previously by Dave we achieved approximately 1 000 competitive conversions in 2015 already with successful pretrials and pipeline filling activity.
We’ve now commissioned nine repositioning programs as you can see on this slide seven plant expansions and two brand-new plant startups.
Ahead of us are two more new plants and three more plant expansions.
As already stated we have the equipment in hand it’s been paid for and we’re ready to reposition those assets into these new locations.
Looking at the list here you can clearly see that we are globally repositioning Xerium into growth products and healthy geographies.
We intend to serve customers more effectively with better lead times local availability patent machine performance technology and we’re on track for that.
By far the most expensive project that we’ve undertaken here at Xerium in the past few years is our China plant which is a $40 million project.
I’m happy to report that plant was commissioned and started up at the end of 2015 and is already producing at capacity right now.
The plant is strategically located in the center of the largest paper-making region in the world.
We have big plans and big financial expectations for the China plant site and the new Xerium team there is on track to deliver them.
Our other new plant is located in Corlu Turkey and it also came online at the end of 2015.
This facility contains state-of-the-art rolls equipment transferred from Xerium’s other plants in Europe and aimed at providing customers in the region with locally provided and locally optimized state-of-the-art roll cover and mechanical service technology to enhance machine performance for customers in the region.
In addition we are underway with a project to redeploy Xerium assets into a new rolls and service plant in Southeast Asia.
This market is the largest board and packaging machine market in the world as well as a large tissue market.
Our Asian rolls and service plant investments have been very successful and we’re building upon that success.
We’re also redeploying assets into a new rolls and service plant in Latin America-South America.
This will allow us to expand our presence in a major pulp and paper region that’s healthy and growing.
Lastly we’re underway with a project to implement a brand-new forming fabric production operation in our new plant in China.
The integration of forming fabric production into this Kunshan plant will leverage the low cost labor structure that we put in place and enable Xerium to provide a patented forming fabric portfolio locally just as it has done with press felts at the end of 2015.
So in summary we’re happy to report that we’ve brought online important enabling investments and remain confident in our plans to build this new capacity and offset graphical grade sales declines.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Bill Butterfield our Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer for his comments regarding our innovation efforts.
Bill? Thanks Harold.
Hello everyone.
Moving to Slide 7 I’m excited to bring you up to speed on our new products and some big innovations we are rolling out to the marketplace.
We have differentiated our product performance key to new wins in the future mentioned previously by Dave by renovating our product lines between 2012 and 2015.
Our goal remains to differentiate our product performance on targeted machines in growth markets - tissue board and packaging non-paper along with services.
These new products have led to many breakthroughs patents and trade secrets as seen on the left hand of Slide 7.
One such product that has led to huge breakthroughs in performance on tissue and board and packaging machines that we are excited to tell you about is called EnerVent.
EnerVent is a patent pending Xerium exclusive roll cover product which has had amazing trial and first use results.
This new product is used primarily in tissue and board and packaging grades and is delivering revolutionary nip dewatering.
Unlike conventional methods Xerium has developed an innovated grooving and drilling technology which prior to this invention was never available previously for softer roll compounds.
For the first time Xerium’s EnerVent technology delivers superior water removal rates for these cover types resulting in significant increases in sheet dryness while reducing energy consumption on tissue and board and packaging machines which is critical to our customers.
Many successful field trials have demonstrated two to three points of dryness increases leading to low energy consumption and/or allowing the paper maker to dramatically increase machine speed thus the statement something big has happened in tissue board and packaging.
Moving to Slide 8 Xerium is introducing four product areas that are supporting our new wins program in tissue board and packaging and non-paper applications.
Mentioned on our last call was our exclusive new raw material technology which has now demonstrated in additional field trials a reduction in dry energy in addition to higher wear resistance in our machine clothing products.
We have also extended our analytics leadership with our new Smart Connect rolls platform which was launched last week.
This innovation provides instant access via smartphone technology to nip roll performance regardless of industry or location.
Xerium’s technical approach to engineering our customers’ machine performance also on Slide 8 through our Resolve program has dramatically reduced the cost operations for our customers.
Innovation in each of these three product categories has demonstrated extensive operational savings proven through many multiple field trials.
Together they are leading to enhanced machine efficiency performance in energy quality and production output.
We have also filled our remaining product gaps in paper and non-paper applications which are undergoing current field trials and we’re expecting great results in these new products as well.
Our emphasis will continue to be the development of the right products for the right business segments.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Cliff for his comments on our 2016 outlook.
Thanks Bill.
Moving to our final slide our 2016 outlook.
Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $105 million to $115 million per year from 2016 to 2018 and our free cash flow is expected to be $15 million to $30 million per year from 2016 to 2018 depending on the currency environments and specific graphical grade market behaviors.
Q4 2015 results were well below the trend line due to the magnitude and timing of graphical note closures and curtailments and the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
Quarterly adjusted EBITDA results tend to be lumpy in our business; however we were able to improve our full-year adjusted EBITDA percentage to 22% which is a 30 basis point improvement over the prior year.
In 2016 in concert with the enabling plant and platform investments we have implemented a market share gain program to fill this new capacity and offset the declines in the graphical markets.
Our main exposure area is machine clothing.
Roll sales remained essentially flat in 2015 despite graphical grade market losses and in 2016 and beyond we expect positive roll sales.
We expect annual adjusted EBITDA to be approximately $105 million to $115 million over the next three years as previously stated as our growth programs fill our platform capacity and we continue our aggressive cost-outs annually.
We have completed the majority of the company’s capital intensive repositioning efforts.
Specifically as Harold mentioned we have completed 16 capital intensive projects.
We constructed two new plants expanded five plants and closed nine facilities.
We have the three projects mentioned earlier underway now and already have the primary equipment on hand.
Lastly surplus free cash flows beginning now will accelerate as our platform investments wind down and that new capacity is filled up with new sales in our targeted markets.
This concludes our prepared remarks and we’re now ready for your questions.
Operator may we have the first question please? [Operator instructions] Your first question comes from Adam Ritzer from Pressprich.
Your line is open.
Hey guys how are you? Good Adam.
I’ve got to tell you this is highly disappointing.
You’re guiding your EBITDA the next three years the same as it was the last three years so we’ve spent by my math $80 million of capex beyond maintenance another $50 million in cash restructuring so that’s $130 million yet zero improvement in EBITDA.
Could you explain that? Yes as you know the fitting preceded the benefit and the plants came online pretty much at the end of the year late fourth quarter so obviously we’ve had no benefit from that.
We are now guiding that we will receive benefit from that on a go-forward basis but we’re anticipating the accelerated decline that happened in graphical in 2015 to continue.
The decline in the graphical grade markets was the highest in 15 years with the exception of the ’08-’09 temporary down spike that happened so the 25% of the market that’s at risk for decline is at a very accelerated pace right now so we are revising our outlook and your expectations that that decline will continue.
We’re very happy with the actions that we undertook in advance not knowing that this downward spike would happen in a core part of the industry and the market so maybe it should have happened a couple of years in advance but it is what is.
They’re online now they’re offsetting negative results already but we’re basically--the change Adam is that we’re basically expecting the record decline in graphical in 2015 versus 2014 to continue and take away some of the goodness that we had had when we were basing our outlook on the gradual decline that had happened over that-- Okay but we used to talk about 115 of EBITDA in 2014.
Again you had talked about 2015 being better than that; it’s worse.
I understand the graphical market’s worse but again where is the return on all this money and all this cash restructuring that we spent? You used to talk about EBITDA in a few years getting up to 140.
We had talked about maybe even 150.
I just don’t--you know I don’t understand where has all that gone? We’ve gone nowhere for three years we’re going to go nowhere for the next three years.
That’s six years of EBITDA being the same.
The graphical market can’t be that.
You talked about that being offset with growth in Latin America and growth in China.
You had talked about the China facility generating $25 million of an EBITDA return on your investment.
I’m just saying - it seems like we’re getting nothing out of all this money we’ve spent.
So if you compare our guidance to the only other public peer we have which is Albany they’re guiding for sales that go down EBITDA to be flat for five years [indiscernible] cost-out activities and their capex spending is double ours or thereabouts.
So if you’re asking why is the industry revising its outlook why is Numera revising their outlook why is [indiscernible] revising their outlook why is our other public peer revising their outlook why are we revising our outlook it has to do with the accelerated downturn in graphical markets.
With regards to the payback on our projects they’re unchanged so if you look at our project IRRs they’re still delivering the same benefits.
They’re being offset by the accelerated takeaway on the graphical side.
We’re not going to double down.
We’re not going to try to regroup to deliver $140 million of EBITDA.
We could.
Instead of that we’re going to use our free cash flow to pay debt down.
Okay so let’s move on to your free cash.
Hold on Adam.
We are giving guidance that we think is conservative - you’re correct on that point so we are picking that up.
We’re trying to be conservative on purpose.
I believe that Albany is too.
We’re still projecting an improvement.
Our EBITDA is not flat - it was $89 million in 2012 and this is significant advancement from that and we’re going to be cash flow generative instead of cash burning which we were in those years.
So it’s a significantly improved financial profile and we’re making the decision instead of re-spending at that same rate to chase an EBITDA number we are going to pay down debt with our free cash flow.
Okay so what are you expecting your capex to be on a maintenance and call it growth spending over the next three-year period? Well Cliff gave you expectations on free cash flow which takes that into account on capex and cash restructuring as well as changes in working capital as we ramp up the working capital profiles in these new operations so the all-in number the free cash flow guidance he’s given to you already.
I know I’m just trying to figure out how you get to that what makes up that component.
I know what interest expense is-- Capital expenditures Adam are forecasted for $28 million in 2016.
We expect them to be about $30 million the next two years after that so down significantly from our spending patterns of the last three years from $50 million down to $30 million.
However we’re still spending about $30 million a year in capex which is about our normal run rate if you go back over the last 10 years and did an average.
Right you’re almost back to a maintenance level of spending.
That’s right that’s right.
If you look at a prior 10-year period the company’s average capex was around 30.
That’s right.
Okay got it.
And you’re still paying cash taxes because of the different jurisdictions right so is that--what $10 million $15 million a year? About $15 million a year Adam.
About 15 - okay thank you.
Then my last question again this may be a little sensitive but we apparently had some kind of bid for the company going back last summer last fall.
We rejected it.
The shareholders didn’t even get a chance to review that.
The stock is cut in half at least from since then and our guidance for the next three years is pretty much flat with the last three.
How come we didn’t explore that a little more fully or why weren’t the shareholders given more information about that bid? Well that’s a private matter obviously.
The shareholder that took their action they reported in an 8-K regarding what they had done and we haven’t elaborated on what we responded or didn’t do.
But I can tell you that we had a formal board process that handled that inquiry properly and nothing came of it.
So that’s all I can tell you.
Nothing was shareholder ready we weren’t ready to talk to Adam Ritzer or anyone else.
Nothing came to that point of view and the board handled it properly.
That’s my view and I’m satisfied that everything was done possible to help all shareholders.
Got it.
Okay thanks for answering my questions.
You’re welcome.
Thank you Adam.
Your next question comes from Anthony Young.
Please state your company.
Your line is open.
Hey guys it’s Anthony Young from Macquarie.
Just a couple of things.
So on the margins you guys sort of indicated that there was a ramp-up or as you ramped up your margins just weren’t were they were in the past.
How should we sort of think about margins going forward? Do you guys have any sort of figure for how much of the cost was associated with start-up costs? Yes hi Anthony this is Harold.
Our margins were up in the year gross margins were up our EBITDA was up.
As Cliff mentioned we had some lumpiness.
We did run some plant variances due to light loads in some of the plants.
We have to recognize that under absorption.
That’s a quarter to quarter phenomenon.
For the year we were up on gross margins and EBITDA and for this year we’ll be up on gross margins and EBITDA.
We have a three and five-year game plan to continue to increase our gross margins and EBITDA.
So yes we were impacted by start-up costs.
We definitely collect and categorize those but we’re improving.
We still improved.
We went backwards in EBITDA last year because of sales volumes and the strong dollar the translation impact of us reporting in dollars and having the majority of our profits not in dollars.
So that was a big part of the lower number but on a percentage basis adjusting for currency and the comparisons we improved our operating profile and we will this year too.
Right.
So I guess my question then would be it ticked up in the fourth quarter would you guys view what happened in the first half of the year as being sort of more as you run rate going forward? It sounds like you have plans for improvement but just sort of thinking about it on a baseline basis where the business is now would the first half be a reasonable representation versus what happened in the third and fourth quarters when you guys were ramping up some of the facilities? Anthony this is Cliff.
The way we look at it is we believe that the sales in the second half of the year given Harold’s comment earlier where we expect graphical grade issues that we’re seeing to continue that’s kind of what we’re planning on.
However from an earnings standpoint we expect the adjusted EBITDA to reflect more closely what we accomplished in the first half of the year.
Okay.
Then just on the graphical grade issue as far as the two businesses go machine clothing and the rolls business it seems like the machine clothing is more exposed to the graphical grade.
Does that mean there’s going to be more closures to come on the machine clothing side than on the rolls side or how should we think about those businesses not necessarily just for 2016 but as we think about the longer term too? It’s a sales mix comment.
If you look at our product lines the graphical grade paper production uses really high-end forming fabrics and that is our best product.
It’s the industry’s best product probably.
We’ve had a high amount of legacy exposure to that.
I will see that it’s permanently disappearing though so our exposure to the topic is declining.
We’ve made a conservative assumption here in our guidance assuming a decline rate that would have these markets disappear pretty quickly.
That’s conservative.
It’s more conservative than some of the outlooks.
Our exposure in machine clothing and graphical is much smaller than our other public peer just given their size and they do report their sales in the United States and Mexico and so do we so we can do a comparison.
So we believe we were hit by timing.
Our customers got impacted a little bit more differentially but overall the market is going to trend down with less demand for newsprint and printing and writing products so that is a bad mix for us.
Rolls are also declining but not as much and if you look at the rolls intensity in some of the other areas that are healthy [indiscernible] and so the mix impact for us to close point mathematically this is machine clothing is where we’re going to suffer so we’re going to have a negative price mix there.
We have had a negative price mix there and we’re making the assumption it’s going to continue and are buckling down for that.
We have re-intensified our cost-out efforts anticipating the same type of decline in ’16 that we had in ’15 so that it doesn’t hurt us like it did.
Okay then just lastly on the Turkey facility.
You guys had previously talked about once that facility ramped up it was going to be largely filled just given the customer and the location.
Is that part of the reason also why roll covers is hanging in a little bit better than machine clothing? Well in roll covers we’re doing well in all regions.
That plant in 2015 gave us nothing so similar to Adam Ritzer’s point - you know where is the payback the payback for these investments is in 2016 ’17 and ’18 so the Turkey plant our prefilling activities on the pipeline and our new positions won exceeded what we thought.
So we did open up full and so they will be contributing in Q1 this year.
They didn’t really give us much last year - they were doing trials and technical approval work so the payback from our big investments will be this year and next year.
We really had the pain was in ’14-’15 and the gain is going to be in ’16-’17.
We already see it in the quarter that we’re in.
So to Cliff’s point Q4 was below trend line but for the year we were down 5% - 4% excuse me for the quarter.
We were down 5 as was Albany so we were down the same.
We both have a little bit different product mixes but we were basically selling to the same crowd just a little bit different product mix.
In the prior quarters we had a little bit worse performance from graphical.
So going into this year we’re going to get offsets from our new investments that we didn’t have last year so that’s why we have an upper range to our guidance where we’re guiding similar to Albany instead of giving point guidance.
We’re getting off that because the hard to predict number here for us is the rate of the takeaway.
We’ve got a hole in the bucket and it’s called graphical grade sales decline and we misjudged that in ’15 and instead of a gradual decline in that it was the worst ever decline except for the ’08-’09 temporary down spike.
So we’re just going to guide conservatively in this range and Turkey will give us--it’s already given us good impact in this quarter as is the Kunshan China plant and these other projects.
So already we see an improving quarter to Cliff’s point on the lumpiness.
So I think that was a low point for us and we’ve stopped our spending already so we haven’t put any down payments on anything else so we’re already free cash flow generative in this quarter as well.
Okay that sounds great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Anthony.
Your next question comes from Dan Abramowitz from Hillson Financial Management.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Dan.
I just wanted to follow up on the earlier questions from Adam Ritzer.
You keep talking about Albany as the only real public comp to us facing similar industry headwinds and so forth but I think the source of the frustration that I heard from him and certainly we share it is that even if you look at Albany although we face the same headwinds it’s a different story in terms of how their strategy has performed in terms of returns to shareholders.
Their shareholders have made money; we have not.
Even with all the pressure in certain parts of the industry their stock is still within 10% of its high over the past year; ours is down over 50% and they’re up year-to-date and we’re down 26% year-to-date.
They’re up over 50% since January 2012 we’re flat.
So our strategy with the same sort of macro headwinds has performed significantly worse for the shareholders of Xerium than it has for our other public comp and I think that’s the source of the frustration because we have put an enormous amount of shareholder capital to work as Adam pointed out in both capex and restructuring charges and there just hasn’t been any benefit accrued to the shareholders.
I don’t hear from you guys any sort of sense of urgency or any shifts in strategy that specifically addresses the very very poor shareholder performance that’s now gone on for an extended period of time and the projections that you’re giving us would imply that despite all of that spending we can’t expect to see any growth in EBITDA for the next three years.
So it begs the question how do we change the paradigm of the last three four five years with that sort of backdrop? And I don’t hear anything from you strategically that would address what I think is a reasonable concern from the shareholders that a lot of money and a lot of time has been spent and we are not benefiting from it.
Dan did you ask a question? Okay yeah that was more of a diatribe I suppose than a question.
But I guess the question is given the fact that we are where we are--I mean at some point plowing this enormous amount of capital into the business without any returns to shareholders becomes an exercise in futility because if you can’t make money for the shareholders doing it then the capital would be better spent elsewhere.
So is there any strategic emphasis that’s going to be placed on trying to change the dynamic here in terms of maximizing shareholder value? Okay you’re asking share price kind of questions.
If we get some data out here the share price was about $2.70 a share when I came.
It dipped down over the prior year which you said.
If you compare our enterprise value increases versus Albany’s or anyone’s during the same time period we have that data.
Cliff you want to just give him a little bit of data? Yes sure.
Given the fact that we’re more leveraged any change in our value obviously affects our stock price more significantly so we’ve done comparisons.
We’re pretty close to Albany when you look at change in equity value to enterprise value so we understand our stock price is down but again being a highly levered company we obviously get hit harder and are more volatile than a company that’s got a lot less debt.
What were the changes in enterprise value in ’15 Cliff for the two of us? For us in ’15 we were down 6% if you compare change in our stock value to our enterprise value and I believe Albany’s calculation comes out to 4%.
Yes so a lot of our enterprise value is in our debt right and so if you look at--we have a volatile stock because it sits on top of a lot of turns of leverage.
So the stock has moved around--our stock has moved around more than theirs.
If you look at--I think you were articulating the end of last year or something I don’t remember your data point in your talk there Dan but we did have heavy selling pressure from two shareholders.
Also if you look 13-Fs and look at that public data one of them had a big redemption problem and if you look at the amount of shares we have trade daily we had a staggering amount of selling pressure on our stock which has been relieved.
Regarding our strategy we’re in the middle of it and it’s not different.
I think what--and we are not happy with our stock price performance either but as regards to our projects and the three-year pipeline filling activities there’s no change to that.
The help is on the way thing with our projects that we’re putting in place there’s no change at all to expectations or timing on those or the cost to do them.
What has changed is the takeaway rate on the graphical grades has accelerated and therefore we’re incorporating into that instead of chasing an EBITDA number.
However like the closures of additional plants we have three plants that we can close.
We know how much of EBITDA would be that we would get from them we know how much it would cost.
We could deliver a higher EBITDA number but instead of that we are going to address the debt issue and pay down debt.
From our talks with investors and the feedback we’ve been given we know that we’re a highly levered small cap company.
Our board our management team are pursuing a more aggressive debt pay down program and a moderated balanced EBITDA improvement plan so that’s what we’re doing.
The stock has performed very well during the three-year periods from $2 and something up to around $8 something.
You’re right that it went all the way to a big number and down as did the enterprise values of many small caps.
If you compare our enterprise values to other small cap stocks enterprise values declined for highly levered micro caps and small caps us with it.
So Albany is not a highly levered micro cap; we are.
But if you look at enterprise values which is what Cliff is saying there’s not a big difference.
It’s just that a lot of our enterprise value is in our debt and enterprise values have come down and therefore or stock has been differentially hurt.
We’re not happy.
The speakers on the phone today are big shareholders of this company so you said what are you guys doing about it? What we’re doing about it is we are doing the balanced program.
If you do the math here Cliff’s math the range is up to $100 million of debt pay down so--and in a small amount of time so what we’re doing about it is we’re going to try to repay some of this debt and get it behind us.
We’re going to give conservative expectations on EBITDA assuming that this bad set of circumstances we have on graphical continues and it’s consistent with the guidance given with our other peers and third party data.
Dan come back at me.
Did I address any of your comments you made? Well yeah.
I understand-- We can also take this offline if you prefer a more detailed conversation.
Yes I’d be happy to do that.
It’s just the--well yes I don’t want to beat a dead horse.
But it does have the feeling of a mouse running on a treadmill running very hard but not making forward progress.
You understand what I’m saying? Yes.
Can we move along Dan if you don’t mind? Yes.
Once again if you’d like to ask a question please press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
Your next question comes from David Kaiser from Robotti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Hey guys how are you doing? Good.
I just wanted to focus on the debt for a second.
How aggressively do you think you can pay it down so if EBITDA’s flat or in the $105 million to $115 million range for the next three years how aggressively can you address the debt number and what other options do you have that sort of thing? David our estimates for the next three years are that we would generate $15 million to $30 million in free cash flow each year.
That money would be available to pay down debt.
From a cumulative standpoint we’re talking about $75 million $80 million and again we’re trying to be careful with our projections given the state of the market right now.
But we believe that that’s very doable and if the markets were to cooperate which we’re not counting on and we don’t want to get caught in that trap but if they were to cooperate we could do better.
I’ll say it differently too.
We don’t intend to kick off another big expensive project.
We intend to pay down debt with any overages that we might have if we’re being overly conservative right now.
No I understand that.
I’m just wondering how much of it is a concern when some of it’s due and how you’re looking at potentially restructuring it or no you’re just going to pay down and how that goes on a go-forward basis.
Oh we’re firmly a B credit and in the three-year period with our maturities we foresee ourselves being a B credit.
We have aspirations to be a BB credit and to be three-times levered.
That’s our midterm goal.
That’s what we’re trying to do.
We’re trying to get to be a BB credit and if you look at our debt we do need to refinance it in ’18 so we have our eyes on that.
We could refinance it now but it would make our cash interest payments go up and we don’t want any part of that.
So we have-- I don’t blame you.
Pardon me? I said I don’t blame you that that’s all logical.
All right well that was my only question.
I think everything else has been asked.
I just wanted a little more clarity on that so.
Thank you David.
You’re welcome.
Once again if you would like to ask a question please press star then the number one on your telephone keypad.
We have no further questions at this time.
I turn the call over to Harold.
Okay thank you very much.
Appreciate the questions from Adam and Anthony and Dan and David.
We’re disappointed in the quarter we had also but it re-convicts us to do what we’re doing which is get away from this troublesome graphical grade area and the projects we have underway are on track to do that.
We’re going to have to go through this graphical grade decline before we can adjust our guidance up and we’re trying to be good reporters and balanced reporters with the good things and the bad things here so that you can make your judgements properly and well informed.
We are having an improved quarter here that we’re in and we look forward to speaking to you about that quarter in a few months.
So thank you for calling in today.
Operator that will conclude our call.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.