Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corp.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corp.
today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We'll get started on Slide 3.
Our results in the quarter reflect progress in scaling our Services business while maintaining our leadership in document technology.
Steady revenue growth and our sharp focus on operational improvements resulted in a 28% increase in adjusted earnings.
This is the last quarter that we need to report on a pro forma basis.
You'll recall that we closed on the ACS acquisition in February of 2010.
So going forward we have the benefit of a full year of ACS results in our year-over-year comparison.
Our first quarter pro forma revenue increased 2%.
We delivered Q1 adjusted EPS of $0.23 which was above our guidance.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $0.19 per share.
This includes $0.04 from the amortization of intangibles.
Cost and expense management remains a strength of ours leading to a Q1 operating margin of 9.1% a year-over-year improvement of close to 1 point.
Gross margin of 33% is within our range and reflects the results of more revenue coming from services and the continued impact of currency.
The first quarter is typically our lightest in the year for cash generation.
Due to some seasonal effects of our business on working capital and the timing of accounts payable we used $30 million in operating cash during the first quarter.
We remain very confident in our cash flow for the balance of the year and continue to expect to deliver $2.5 billion in operating cash and $1.9 billion of free cash flow for the full year.
Our CFO Luca Maestri will provide more detail on cash flow and our financials in a moment.
First I'll review a summary of our Q1 performance and discuss how we're managing the impact on our business from the earthquake in Japan then Luca and I will both take your questions.
So let's turn to Slide 4.
In the past year we transformed not only our business into a leading player in the services base but also our business model with growth largely driven from an increasing annuity stream.
85% of our total revenue comes from annuity and annuity was up 3% in Q1 or 2% in constant currency.
Total revenue of nearly $5.5 billion was up 15%.
On a pro forma basis it was up 2% in constant currency.
Equipment sales were flat in the quarter.
This was not surprising considering the double-digit growth rates we saw in Q1 of last year as the economy was improving especially in developing markets fast for the year and we're facing volatility in some Middle Eastern markets stalling previous rapid growth in this region.
With a series of recent product launches and more to come in Q2 we expect to see an improvement in equipment sales later this year.
For now we're being prudent in our planning considering potential product constraints from Japan.
I'll talk more about this in a moment.
First let's turn to Slide 5 for a review of the metrics that fuel our annuity: pages MIF and signings.
In our Technology business we focus on color page growth and machines in the field or MIF.
Many of you that I always know that I always provide a reminder of this equation: More MIF leads to more pages; more pages especially Color pages generate more revenue from supplies and technical service; MIF plus pages equals more revenue flowing through to our annuity stream.
For Q1 we saw continued growth in MIF with Digital up 2% and Color MIF up 14%.
Color is 32% of our MIF and 25% of pages.
Total Digital pages were down  5% the result of declines in transactional black-and-white pages.
Yet within total pages we had a 7% increase in higher value Color pages.
We're focusing our investments on creating more Color pages through affordable office color printing and more advanced digital production printing.
As important we continue to grow our distribution network including 4 recent acquisitions that expand our assets to small and mid-sized businesses.
3 are in the U.S.
and 1 in the U.K.
In our Services business Signings totaled $3 billion and were up 3% on a trailing 12-month basis.
Keep in mind that the trailing 12-month and year-over-year compares can easily be skewed by big deals.
That's the nature of a services business and was the case this quarter.
In Q1 of 2010 you recall that we signed the $1.6 billion 10-year California Medicaid contract.
The size and duration of the deal creates a tough compare for this year.
That said I am very pleased with the success of our Signings this quarter.
It's $3 billion of revenue that benefits us over the length of multi-year contracts.
And many of the wins were the result of cross-selling with ACS.
Notable deals in the quarter include a $200 million contract to manage IT services for MGM Resorts International reducing document devices from 2 700 to less than 900 through managed print services for the workforce provider Kelly Services.
Managing clinical and technology applications for clients who use Allscripts for most hosting services.
Since Allscripts is the most used solution for electronic health records this is a significant deal valued at $500 million over the next 10 years and reflects increasing demand from healthcare providers for IT support.
In addition we're continuing to win government contracts for transaction and claims processing as well as transportation and parking services.
Our growth in Services was driven by an 8% increase in revenue from our BPO offering 4% from Document Outsourcing and 1% from ITO.
That's strong performance across the board along with a 29% increase in our total pipeline.
We're also scaling our Services business through acquisitions.
In Q1 we announced an expansion of our call center business in Europe by acquiring Unamic.
And through our acquisition of CredenceHealth we're strengthening our portfolio of software solutions that serve the healthcare market.
In summary our progress in Services and Technology reflects our differentiation in the marketplace and the benefits of our diverse portfolio.
We continue to hold the #1 revenue market share position for document technology and the breadth of our services offerings as well as our global account relationships give us a competitive advantage.
So it was a good start to the year.
Before I hand it over to Luca let's turn to Slide 6 for a review on how we're responding to and impacted by the tragic events in Japan.
Most important we are relieved to learn that our people the Xerox employees in Japan and our colleagues from Fuji Xerox are all safe.
And since Fuji Xerox's major manufacturing and operations sites are in Tokyo and regions south and west from where the earthquake hit the hardest our facilities were not damaged.
We do business with a number of other partners and vendors in Japan and we're working with them on a daily basis to comprehend the impact on our supply chain.
Our #1 priority is fulfilling customer orders and maintaining the uptime of their Xerox systems.
That means alternative sourcing for components and materials often at a higher cost and it means more expensive distribution methods like airfreight to avoid the long delays in many ports.
As a result we're seeing increased supply chain costs but we are focused first on our customer needs.
Our employees in Japan and our colleagues in Fuji Xerox are doing an incredible job managing the complexities of this very challenging situation.
We were extremely grateful for their perseverance and tremendous support.
Based on our analysis of the situation we expect to see some product constraints toward the middle of the second quarter impacting the pace of install for Xerox and Fuji Xerox.
And we don't expect to see a full recovery until later this year.
So from a financial perspective there are potential Q2 headwinds in 3 areas: Equity income from our 25% ownership of Fuji Xerox; supply chain costs; and equipment sale revenue due to possible product constraints.
Considering there is still much uncertainty we're providing a broader range than usual for our earnings expectations in the second quarter.
We expect that over the course of the year we will minimize the impact on cost and revenue.
Therefore we remain fully committed to delivering on our full year expectations.
We maintain a 24/7 focus on managing the situation in Japan and I do feel that we're in a better position than most.
Above all we're doing what we can to help our colleagues in Japan recover and rebuild.
With that let me turn it over to Luca and I'll be back to wrap up and open the call to your questions.
Luca? Thank you Ursula and good morning everyone.
As Ursula said we are reasonably pleased with the overall results for the quarter and continue to see opportunity for further improvement ahead of us.
Revenue growth on a pro forma basis was 2% in Q1 which was good performance but under our full year range of 3% to 5%.
We expect to accelerate revenue growth as we move through the year because of our significant signings in 2010 and as we begin to realize greater synergy revenues.
Therefore we remain confident in our ability to be in the 3% to 5% range for the full year.
Operating margin in the quarter was 9.1% up nearly a point year-on-year on a pro forma basis and a very good start for the year.
As anticipated we saw currency and the mix of business impacting gross margin.
But this impact was more than offset by disciplined expense management.
Our RD&amp;E and SAG ratios improved quite significantly thanks to restructuring and synergies and we're well on track for a full year objectives of $270 million of restructuring savings and over $120 million of cost synergies.
On the gross margin front we expect improvement over the year where we continue to implement restructuring and synergy initiatives and we see now reduced headwind from currency.
Equity income in the quarter was $34 million which reflected a strong year end for Fuji Xerox.
The $34 million includes $11 million in Fuji Xerox restructuring which we did not adjust out this year.
Adjusted EPS was $0.23 and grew 28% year-on-year.
The only adjustment to reported EPS was the amortization of intangibles and GAAP EPS of $0.19 was an improvement of $0.23 year-on-year.
As Ursula indicated going forward we expect equity income to be affected by the events in Japan especially during Q2 and Q3.
We also continue to assess the direct impact on our operations and we'll provide an update on this during our investor conference in May.
As a result of the uncertainty from Japan we are providing a range for Q2 EPS which is wider than usual.
Let us turn now to Slide 8 for a review of our segments starting with technology.
Technology revenue was flat in Q1 at $2.5 billion about 46% of our business.
Importantly segment margin of 10.7% was up over a point year-on-year with benefits from restructuring more than offsetting the negative impact from currency.
Overall good performance despite some headwinds in the entry category caused by lower installs and equipment revenue.
Entry for performance is weighted heavily towards the developing markets.
The results in Q1 were in part affected by disruption in the Middle East.
Looking forward we anticipate trends to improve although Q2 will face a difficult compare given the 56% install growth that we had during Q2 of 2010.
On the product side we are in the midst of a refresh of our lower end multi-function product lines which we expect will have entry performance.
Mid-range continues to show very good growth thanks to a strong Color portfolio which delivers industry-leading quality productivity and price value.
The product line will also be strengthened by new product announcements in Q2.
In high-end the Color Press 800/1000 continues to perform well and is the driver of our Color install growth.
As we go through the year we will have more product launches such as the already announced inkjet production system that will build up on our leadership in the segment.
In summary solid overall performance in Technology during Q1 and we expect this will continue throughout the year.
Moving on to Services on Page 9.
Services revenue was up 40% or 5% on a pro forma basis.
Growth was driven by BPO which was up 8% and Document Outsourcing up 4% with good sequential improvement.
ITO revenue was up 1%.
BPO's 8% growth had strong contributions from HR services from customer care volumes and new business ramping transportation.
This growth more than offset declines in government services associated with lower unemployment claims volume and contract run-off.
BPO signings were $1.25 billion with good momentum across all lines of business.
ITO had very strong signings which more than doubled year-on-year and also had strong pipeline growth.
We expect this positive trend in ITO to continue as new contracts ramp during the year.
Document Outsourcing also had a very good quarter with strong signings up 42% year-on-year in addition to the revenue growth of 4%.
Overall signings grew 3% on a trailing 12-month basis which represents a deceleration given the 10-year $1.6 billion California Medicaid deal that we signed in Q1 of last year.
In total our Services pipeline was up 29% including synergies.
Segment margin of 10.3% was up 7/10 of a point and reflected the positive contribution from restructuring and synergy savings.
In summary positive results in both our Technology and Services segments.
With that let us move to the cash flow slide on Page 10.
Cash from operations is seasonally weakest for us in Q1.
And this quarter was further impacted by the timing of accounts payable.
The accounts payable timing will work itself out through the year and we remain committed to achieve $2.5 billion in operating cash flow for the year.
Earnings contributed $289 million to cash flow a strong performance but not enough to offset working capital usage of $584 million.
Let me make a few comments on working capital.
The accounts receivable movement is in line with prior Q1 performance and reflects the tremendous effort that is made each Q4 to drive collections.
DSOs actually improved year-on-year reflecting our focus on cash generation.
Inventory performance is also in line with our expectations and reflects the building back of inventory after the high Q4 sales period.
Accounts payable was a greater use of cash than normal but broadly expected given our seasonal timing of payments.
CapEx was $111 million for the quarter and we're well positioned relative to our full year outlook of $600 million.
That was flat for the quarter and our cash balance was $1 billion.
Slide 11 provides more detail on our debt and cash flow expectations beginning with debt.
Given our borrowing capacity and our objective to optimize funding costs we intend to call our 2027 trust preferred securities during the second quarter.
These preferred securities were issued in 1997 have a par value at $650 million and carry an 8% coupon.
This action will help reduce interest expense and will be cash accretive by the end of 2011.
In our second quarter we expect to report a $34 million pretax charge as a discreet item which represents $24 million of non-cash carrying value adjustments and a $10 million cash premium.
We are raising our year-end debt target by $650 million the face amount of this security to $8.6 billion.
Just to be clear through this transaction our liabilities remain unchanged and this action has no impact on the level of available cash or on the timing of cash deployment.
We also remain committed to maintaining a solid investment-grade rating.
When looking at our debt balances it is always important to keep in mind that the vast majority of our debt is in support of our financing business.
We have $8.6 billion of debt of which $6.3 billion can be associated to the financing of Xerox equipment for our customers which assumes a 7 to 1 leverage of our finance assets of $7.2 billion.
These finance assets represent a committed revenue stream from our customers.
As I've said before we remain confident in our achievement of cash from operations of $2.5 billion and we expect to have $1 billion to $1.2 billion of available cash of this year.
We are fully committed to using over 70% of available cash towards share repurchases beginning in the second half.
In summary we had a solid quarter in spite of some fairly challenging external circumstances.
Our annuity base business model and our market leadership position are strong assets which we would continue to leverage to grow earnings and return value to shareholders.
Back to you Ursula.
Thanks Luca.
Let me quickly wrap up so that we can get to your questions.
We're a full year into our acquisition of ACS and fully realizing the benefits of being the world's  largest enterprise for business process and document management.
We continue to expand our offerings through products and services that give our clients more flexible choices and give us a competitive advantage while strengthening our annuity stream.
We continue to expand our distribution channels reaching more and more customers especially small and mid-sized businesses on a global basis.
And we continue to operate our business effectively and efficiently helping to offset margin pressures from revenue mix and currency.
As a result in Q1 adjusted EPS increased 28%.
Revenue was up and we improved operating margins.
Generating significant cash flow is imperative to our business and a key focus for our leadership team.
This year we expect $1 billion to $1.2 billion in available cash for acquisitions and to buy back stock.
For the second quarter we expect to deliver adjusted earnings of $0.23 to $0.26 per share and we remain committed to delivering full year adjusted earnings of $1.05 to $1.10 per share.
With that I thank you again for joining us today.
And now let's open it up to your questions for Luca and me.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
Can you just talk a bit about what you're seeing in terms of page trends? Actually sort of end usage at customers? Because you had page volume that was down 5%.
You had document outsourcing was up 4%.
So I'm kind of curious as to sort of what you think everything that's out  in terms of what customers are doing and their willingness to print? And then I have a couple of follow-ups? Yes I think that what we're seeing from page trends is the continuation of the trends that we saw in the beginning all through 2010 and 2009.
So with a little bit of a hiccup in this quarter driven a little bit by the Middle East.
So this is what is happening.
In black-and-white particularly high-end production pages we continue to see a decline of those pages.
That's pretty much what we expect and it's kind of in our business model and our business thinking today.
That decline has not significantly accelerated but it is definitely continuing.
It's a big piece of our page volume.
At the same time seeing a pickup an increase in color pages and we're seeing an increase in average price per page because as we mix towards color the price per page actually trends upwards which is good.
We're seeing an increased importance of the low end of our business so the printing trends in small and medium mid-sized businesses.
And we're responding to that by increasing our product intensity there and our distribution there primarily through acquisitions.
And so -- and then overriding that we had a pretty big stall in activity and therefore in pages in the Middle East which we expect to come back as that region settles down which it is beginning to do.
So as we work our way through 2011 we'll see continued growth in color continued growth in average price per page a decline in high-end black-and-white pages and a stabilization in the growth in the low end pages which will bring our trends pretty much in line with what we expect them to be.
Okay great.
And then Ursula if you could talk a little bit about geographic trends in terms of demand what you're seeing in the various regions? And any color you can shed on sort of what Fuji Xerox has seen in terms of demand in Japan? I know it's a tough situation right now.
But is it sort of -- is some business getting back to normal? Or just how should we sort of think about that and also Europe and some of the other regions? Let me start with the other regions and I'll end with Japan.
In the developing markets which was a high-growth area for us it remains a growth area for us.
We as you know had difficulty.
We and everybody else had difficulty in the Middle East area.
It's a pretty big -- it's a good area for us.
We're strong there.
We have high share there and we were impacted by the downturn.
We didn't lose position in that marketplace.
So as their economy improves we'll participate in that area so no problems there.
From the DMO perspective as well as developing markets Russia is a big area for us and we had huge growth in Russia in 2010 end of 2009.
And we're seeing that this quarter actually slow a little bit but we don't expect that to be a continuous trend.
I think that DMO excluding the Middle East will continue to be a growth area for us so pretty good.
Those territories are pretty good.
Europe we talked to you before about Europe responding better than the headlines would anticipate that they would respond.
So our position in Europe from a market share perspective the penetration of color products from our services penetration the winning of deals all that is very good.
Europe as you know is a lower margin region for us and we're focused on continuing to win across-the-board technology and services and continuing to focus on our cost and expense in that area so that we can have a continued good business model but Europe is strong.
U.S.
I have to say has a little bit better output than it had in the previous quarters.
Our equipment sales revenue in the United States is definitely picking up across the board.
We're strengthening in all segments primarily driven by the fact that we have increased penetration in performance in the low end of the business and we continue our strength in the high-end particularly at color.
We do have a product gap right below the very high-end in color right above the mid and in color that we will fill in the second half of the year that should help us to even turn that around a bit particularly on the post-sales side.
But U.S.
better than it was in the past still a little bit tepid but improving for us.
Japan it's hard to tell Shannon.
And I'm not trying to be evasive at all.
We are in constant contact.
When I say constant it's like annoyingly constant you probably saw the people in Japan.
With them on how they are doing.
And their transparency is cloudy so our transparency is cloudy as well.
What I can say is that our post-sale stream which is very important it is 85% of the total revenue and on the equipment side 70% plus of the revenue.
That is not impacted at all.
The first thing that we focus on is to make sure that we can get that supply stream assured so that we don't have any customers who've already bought the technology down or waiting for us.
We have that pretty well secured in both Japan and in the U.S.
The part that was affected for Fuji Xerox was at a high business area for them or for anybody it seems like at all.
The big issues are how they supply to the rest of Japan and to the rest of the United States and the rest of the world particularly the United States.
So in Japan we're seeing not a lot of transparency.
We were able get through the first quarter well both Xerox Fuji Xerox.
We're pretty sure we'll be able to get through for equipment the first half of the second quarter.
We think we'll have some problems in the second half of the second quarter.
But we're also pretty confident that we'll be able to work through those throughout the year.
So without having detailed transparency to all that's happening in Fuji Xerox I'm confident that we'll be able to manage it on a Xerox income perspective.
Fuji Xerox it depends.
I think that they're coming up.
They're doing okay.
They're dealing with that rolling power outages all of these things kind of contribute to the uncertainty.
But if they perform which we expect that they will like they did in the first quarter our first quarter we will be able to make it through the first to the rest of the year I think without any hiccup on an overall basis from a year perspective.
And if  you think about what happened there it's kind of an amazing statement.
As I said when I was speaking earlier I think that we are definitely better positioned than most.
I'm pretty sure of that even though we haven't seen what the other Japanese competitors or manufacturers are saying about their results.
Great.
Yes I think next week will be interesting when Canada and others report so thank you.
And then Luca if you could possibly just talk about sort of your initial thoughts on what you've seen at Xerox opportunities I mean you've been there a few months now.
It would be great to get your take on it.
Sure.
I think probably the word that summarizes my thoughts is execution.
When I look at some of the commitments that we've made when we need to execute on those commitments from an operational standpoint we are in the midst of a large restructuring program which we have announced but we need to execute now.
We are doing a very important synergy activity with the combination of ACS and Xerox and both on the revenue and on the cost side.
And we've got a number of new products that we need to launch on costs on time on quality.
And then we've got a lot of financial commitments right? We've talked about EPS growth.
We've talked about cash generation.
We've talked about debt repayment and of course the share buyback right? And those are commitments that we are fully committed too and we will execute again.
And then from an overall business perspective when you look a bit longer term the key for us is revenue growth and it needs to be profitable.
And that's why we're so focused on this revenue opportunities that we've got with the combination of Xerox and ACS.
And then that's why we continue to be focused on acquisitions.
And that's why we continue to be focused on refreshing our product portfolio.
And international growth is important for us and that's why we are focusing on places where traditionally we're not as focused as we are today.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays.
Just two pretty important things I want to clear up.
Last quarter on your slide deck Slide 10 you said cash flow from core ops of $2.8 billion.
And this time on Slide 11 you're saying $2.5 billion.
Now I think you're trying to say the same thing because there's some receivables some from the financing division that are floating around.
And I just want you to clear that up because I think that some folks today think that these slides don't match up and that there's $300 million less in free cash flow for the year.
And I'd like you to clear that up right now.
What really happened my purpose was to simplify the chart and really what should matter to investors is cash from operations which has always been $2.5 billion.
The number has not changed and it's not changing.
At a certain point we talked at kind of a subset of cash from operations.
We talked about cash from core operations so $2.8 billion and then we said that there would be a use of $300 million from the growth of our finance asset portfolio right? But cash from operations is what matters.
It's $2.5 billion.
It was always $2.5 billion.
And then how debt translates into available cash.
Debt also has not changed it's $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
And you just go from the $2.5 billion of cash from operations then we've got our CapEx of about $600 million then we talked about debt reduction of $600 million and dividends of $300 million right? So that's the math nothing has changed.
We just kind of simplified the chart and really the metric that matters to us is cash from operations.
Okay.
And then on top of this there's $300 million dollars in finance receivables that will roll off that are not included here.
That's correct.
Well no it means that our receivables related to the financed assets are going to grow by $300 million and therefore cash from core operations before our finance asset portfolio has to be $2.8 billion because it's going to be usage of $300 million from the finance assets.
Okay then I got it right I misspoke.
Okay I got it.
So nothing has changed 100%.
And the net cash flow is still same and you just simplified it.
Now Ursula and Luca a question for you.
When you mentioned the cash flow in your speech Ursula you said that it was strong and it was a big focus and it's absolutely coming back.
When you mentioned what you're going to use it for you said acquisition.
But in your slide it says majority going to share repurchases.
I assume you meant the majority going to share repurchases and then a minority going to acquisitions.
I just want to be clear on that.
Yes I'd say if you -- I think I said exactly what you just said which is that we'll have $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We'll use 70% of that with the majority of that for share repurchase and we'll then make acquisitions.
On this cash statement on this cash discussion $2.8 billion to $2.5 billion to $1 billion to $1.2 billion 70% of the $1 billion to $1.2 billion for share repurchase and acquisitions.
The vast majority of the $1 billion to $1.2 billion is share repurchase.
Nothing has changed nothing has changed.
And it can start in August right? It can start in the second half of the year which is what we said.
I'm not going to -- not continue down to August second half of the year.
On the call I want to be confident of the following things:1 that we will generate the cash.
That 's what we do.
We've done it for as long as I've been here and Luca has not changed 1 step in that actually.
He's put additional focus on it.
We'll get $2.8 billion.
We'll use $300 million for finance receivables.
We'll get $2.5 billion.
We'll use CapEx et cetera et cetera get to $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We'll take 70% of that and we'll buy back shares as soon as we can start doing it.
And then the rest of it we'll use for acquisitions for dividends for whatever we can think of that's really great with the rest of the cash that we have.
And then just on nit Luca on modeling.
Should we use a 29% tax rate going forward? And what should we model for equity income? Should it just be something around $30 million a quarter or $20 million to $30 million a quarter net of restructuring charges for Fuji Xerox? Thanks that's it.
The guidance for the tax rate is 31% for the rest of the year.
So 29% in Q1 was just an outcome but we continue to see about 31%.
And obviously the equity income from Fuji Xerox is a question mark also for us so maybe we can compare notes.
But yes $20 million to $30 million is the number.
Thank You.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Gardner with Citigroup.
Okay great thanks.
Ursula and with Luca I was hoping that you might be able to give us some idea of how to think about gross margin here over the next quarter or two given the puts and takes that you've talked about during your prepared comments.
On the one hand it seems like you're going to have some extra cost associated with air freighting equipment and expediting stuff out of Japan.
On the other hand currency is moving back in the right direction and my understanding is that you typically go back and renegotiate your supply contracts with Fuji Xerox with a 1- to 2-quarter lag and recoup some of the negative impact of currency over time.
So how should we think about gross margins over the next quarter or two? I would say this quarter was affected by half a point was currency right? And then the rest was a this shift of our mix of revenues towards services that carries lower gross margin.
Going forward I would say that we should be seeing an improving trend on gross margins.
You're absolutely right.
I think freight will be a headwind because of the situation in Japan.
But using today's rates the currency headwind is mitigating significantly.
There is a lot of volatility in FX these days.
So every day is a different story.
But as a trend currency should be much less of a headwind.
And typically -- I mean Q1 is the weakest quarter that we have right? So with a bit more activity that will have gross margins as well.
So those are the big valuables there.
But we said all along 33% to 35% we believe that we're going to be in that range for the year.
And Richard if I just may on Fuji Xerox contract we do generally -- we continually negotiate with Fuji Xerox and hedge currency with them and so on.
But Fuji Xerox today is a little different than they were 12 months ago obviously.
So they're scrambling.
I don't expect that we'll have massive shifts in cost to Fuji Xerox that will help us mitigate this headwind.
With that I think that we'll still be in the 33% to 35% range that we talked about.
Okay great.
And then I guess one follow-up for you Ursula.
You referred to the fact that you did expect production black-and-white pages to continue to decline.
It looked like black-and-white pages were down high-single digits in the quarter backing into that from the other data that you provided.
Does this weaker page growth change your view at all regarding the sustainable growth rates for the core business? And do you still think that pages can grow at some point as we get deeper into an up cycle? Or is this a new norm for us? No I think that -- first of all I think that we should wait another -- I have to wait another quarter to see more data.
This quarter while the results were very solid for the company we had some interesting signals this quarter or interesting inputs that I don't consider normal.
I'd like to be able to see our way through those a bit before I make a prediction or update my prediction.
So without an update of prediction I would say that black-and-white pages will not accelerate significantly the decline of them and that color pages will not accelerate significantly from the way that we were thinking about them in the past.
So I think that we'll get through this first half of the year and maybe the first three quarters of the year and be able to see that not a lot from how we look at the business has changed substantially.
The Middle East and Japan and the effect of that on how we can fulfill needs and how customers buy et cetera is something that I want to see a little bit more clearly.
So I'd wait a quarter to when color pages continue to grow.
I think that's good on digital pages in general.
Color pages are now about a quarter of the pages that we generate.
It's 30% of the MIF.
I think that will continue to grow.
Our total digital MIF is growing so I think that there's nothing that would say that it would fundamentally change but I think we need another quarter to see how this all works out.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.
Ursula I had one for you.
I wanted to broaden the capital allocation question and that is as you look at the next couple of years philosophically how are you thinking about the longer-term allocation of capital between the buckets of M&amp;A and then buybacks and dividends? And particularly within the context of M&amp;A I'm trying to understand how you think about the capital allocation between say the core Xerox business the previous -- the legacy business I should say and then the new services business? Because clearly the growth trajectory you're having great results on ACS and the core Xerox business has had a little bit of trouble here with the economic cycles in Japan.
But just want to understand longer-term how do you think about that allocation process? Thanks for the question.
So for the long -- for 2012 our focus 2011 2012 is going to be on buying  back shares.
So most of the capital that we get for 2011 obviously we'll start it maybe this year.
In 2012 we have a pretty good chunk to go in buying back shares.
So for the near term that's the focus obviously.
But we generate more cash than we need to use in buying back shares.
So clearly after that we'll continue on our M&amp;A cycle.
We're doing that today.
We bought 5 to 6 companies so far this year.
So we'll continue doing that.
And then we will clearly -- I think tail-end of this year start speaking to the Board and the Board and us will start considering what the heck we do with the dividend.
So that progress will continue 2011 2012.
And as we get beyond that we'll have to see.
I mean we'll continue to generate a significant amount of cash to be in dollars plus and we'll have to invest it and we'll buy back shares in a reasonable sense.
But after a while we get to kind of renew our energy on that one so we'll switch to M&amp;A and to dividend.
As far as allocations towards core and our core business technology business and the services business we are -- our technology business CapEx is fairly well-defined.
It's around $300 million plus or minus a little bit and I don't see a significant shift growth or significant decline in that.
So I think that as we move forward on CapEx the way that you can think about it and the way you should think about it on capital allocation in general is more and more will go toward services.
Our R&amp;D is going to shift more and more towards our services.
Our acquisitions clearly are more in the services space et cetera et cetera.
So you'll see a shift in our capital allocations towards the growth in services.
But we will not walk away from the technology business until it's worthwhile to do that.
Just to add on acquisitions.
The acquisitions that we make for call it traditional Xerox are very much focused on distribution right? And those acquisitions have worked very well for us.
And it's very important for us to broaden our coverage both here in the U.S.
and overseas.
We made -- probably the largest acquisition that we made during Q1 is a distribution company in the U.K.
Very very important for us to continue to do that because it helps us offset some of the negative trends that you see on the technology front.
So I think it's very balanced then.
It's not different from what we were doing in the past.
I will add point there.
And I said we do play -- we have an advantage that we have Fuji Xerox who will continue to focus more heavily on investing in the technology side from an R&amp;D perspective than Xerox does and Xerox will as we go forward.
So we get to play a very good harmonized game here where we can utilize the expertise and Fuji Xerox continue to fuel our technology R&amp;D.
We help them do that obviously.
But we will spend a little more time focusing on our services.
Right.
I guess I'm surprised to see you continue to invest more in the distribution space given what I think is just tremendous opportunities on the other side the services space specifically.
Yes I got you.
I mean if I were you I'd be really nervous if we didn't try to figure out a way to cover more of the small and mid-sized business growth around the world.
I mean that would be walking away from "easy money.
" Our big GAAP we cover the high end market place very well with our technology and our distribution.
We do it extremely well.
But as you know that part of the market is not growing as quickly as the small and mid-sized business and it is significantly more focused on margin lowering activities than the small and mid-sized businesses.
So what our distribution expansion is all around covering a place where our share is probably half as much as our share in the high end of the business.
So the reason we are continuing to invest is because it's business-smart to do.
I mean the technology that we have applies  there just as well as it does at the high end.
And don't misinterpret my comments.
I'm not saying that I'm going to not invest in services.
I'm shifting quite a bit to services and expanding our investments there.
I just don't believe it's prudent.
We don't believe it is prudent to walk away from this very lucrative Technology segment way before you have to.
Okay.
Well thanks for that answer.
I just wanted to ask about then -- my final question is just on OpEx.
As you think about absolute dollars of spend in OpEx if I look at say June and September what does that number look like? Is it flat down up? I think it's probably throughout the year tending upwards.
Tending upwards.Yes because our revenue in  the third and fourth quarter in particular is growing will grow.
It will grow at a pace higher than it did in the first quarter and then it will in the second quarter.
So as our revenue grows our OpEx will have to grow to support that growth.
Okay all right.
Well many thanks.
I'll cede the floor.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> I guess Ursula and Luca could you maybe talk through some of the interplay that we are beginning to see between Services signings and Services revenue growth I guess those dynamics? Particularly as the signings of -- the growth has sort of come down to I guess low-single digits to where it is now.
What should we expect through the year on each of those metrics? And I guess ultimately maybe if you look towards -- I mean maybe not 2012 I know you don't want to give guidance.
But I guess what ultimately should we think of as sort of normalized signings growth rates when things settle in? I'll start and Luca can jump in if he has anything to add.
First of all most important metric is revenue and we're really pleased with our overall revenue growth.
The combination of new business signings which is really important so you get new businesses that adds on to the revenue you have and annuity revenue that we have that we will continue to get we have and will continue to get from already committed signed contracts is exciting there.
And you saw the growth in revenue there BPO up 8%; Document Outsourcing a really good rebound up 4%; and ITO up 1% after a strong first quarter of about 5% growth.
So across the board we're happy with revenue.
That comes because we signed things previously.
And if you could -- the way that you should think about the signings is that we had -- as I said and I'll say again we had uptick in ITO signings that was fairly dramatic doubled our signings in ITO.
We had an uptick in Document Outsourcing signings that was very dramatic year-on-year increases upwards of 40%.
So it will continue to drive revenue.
Our signings are very good.
BPO signings were very strong.
We have to think about the fact that we signed $1.6 billion 10-year contracts in -- this is a rich man's problem to explain.
You have a signing like California Medicaid and then I have to explain the fact that it's not going as much.
I have no problem with that.
And so signings in BPO and ITO and Document Outsourcing are all good.
The pipeline of signings is mixed very well.
The pipeline is mixed very well so signings on a go-forward should be good across the board ITO BPO and Document Outsourcing and our synergies pipeline is up 29% which includes synergies signings.
So I think if you look at signings across the board we are very pleased with them.
We continue to win in all the segments that we focus on.
There'll be compares that are difficult in certain quarters because we did greater the previous quarter but net-net pure dollars doing extremely well.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And I guess -- Ursula I appreciate that.
That's helpful.
I guess because signings is something I think that you folks are going to increasingly become focused on.
Is there any way that we can think of what a normalized signings growth would be? Or over time should we think of the signings growth approximating the revenue growth? I mean just so that when we see it move around or should we expect it to move around because of the nature of the verticals that ACS is attached to and maybe they're more prone to make a deal? I guess should we expect the kind of movement that we've seen the last few quarters? Is that normal just so that we know it's normal? Or should we expect some kind of approximation eventually to revenue growth? Ananda I think you know well that signings is not a perfect metric right? There is a lot of variability within the numbers right? Think about the fact that we participate in so many verticals and the duration of these contracts can be extremely different.
you go from a 3- to 5-year contract.
And then in our Transportation business sometimes we talk about a 50-year contract right? So obviously when you sign a very long-term-contract then you skew the numbers right? So you need to expect some time of volatility there.
Think of our ITO business this quarter.
It was up more than 100% right? Obviously it has several factors.
It's very difficult to give you a normalized rate.
Of course you know in the very very very long term you should approximate  revenue growth but particularly when you talk about quarter comparisons it's going to be moving up and down a lot.
Next question please.
thanks Ananda.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Ireland with JMP Securities.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about any impact you saw in the Services business in the budget delays and some of the uncertainty around government budgets.
Has there been any impact there? We're really pleased with our government business.
It's about -- it's a big piece of our BPO businesses.
As you know it's about 40% of the BPO ITO business.
And if you remove transportation it's a little bit lower than that.
So we're pleased with it is something that we focus on assuring that we win.
Now have we seen impact? As more people are employed the less unemployment there is so we have definitely seen volume declines lower volume in our service of the government from an unemployment perspective.
And we've seen a little bit of lower volumes or a little bit lower revenue as some of the contracts that we won are now ending.
Not ending that we lost them they're ending because they ended.
The service is done.
But the way that we manage this business is that we actually mix it across the board.
So while that's going down slightly we have to actually increase and we have increased our signings and our revenue on the commercial side.
The answer is yes a little bit but not any way that would have me consider government being anything but a very very lucrative and extremely important portion of our business.
But yes we've seen some downward turns there but not significant.
Thank you.
the other question I had is a little bit more theoretical.
Could you give us a sense of the assumptions you're making about the printing business that drives your investment in distribution? I mean are you looking at this purely from a market share gain in cutting off distribution of competitors and getting higher consideration with the same win rate? Or are you looking at a longer-term growth opportunity? I'm just wondering what's driving that decision-making? Yes so I think that you should look at it from a purely financial perspective.
And obviously the next step right before the revenue and profit potential of the business is you have to get share.
So let me back up.
Big thing here is color.
If you didn't have a black-and-white business.
Suppose  there was no history in black-and-white everyone in the world who is competing today would be competing to get a position in this color page market because it is lucrative because it is growing.
So our investment here is in distribution in R&amp;D and it's pointed heavily towards color across the spectrum low to high.
That's it.
At the same time we have a black-and-white business that we still have to service.
It's not growing but it throws off cash and it's reasonably profitable.
So the way that we look at it is running after the part of the business that is growing and that is profitable and that's exciting and keeping hold of for as long as is reasonable the part of the business that customers still want but at a lowering demand rate.
So that's the shift that we're making here.
And in order to service that we need to actually have distribution.
We have to have products that serves the customer's needs.
You shouldn't think about investing a whole lot of money in black-and-white R&amp;D or black-and-white manufacturing because that's not what we're doing.
Most of our investments in R&amp;D and  one of the ways that we can make this shift and in some ways downturn in R&amp;D is by focusing our energies on the parts of the business that are growing.
Thank you.
Your next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Deepak Sitaraman with Crédit Suisse.
Ursula just a follow-up to an earlier question on deal trends in the Services business especially for BPO and ITO.
Can you give us some color on what you're seeing in terms of sales cycles and also in the pricing environment? And then just as a follow-up for Luca also in Services can you help us think about margin progression as we go through the year? Specifically as you ramp some of the new services revenue opportunities how should we be thinking about the lag between when you start recognizing those revenues versus the up-front costs associated with that? Thanks very much.
And so our sales  cycle -- I'll do this relatively quickly and then this will be the last question for the group.
Sales cycles I think what you can think about is not a significant change in trends from previous discussions that I've had but let me remind what they were.
For the different segments of our business in the BPO space and in the BPO space if you think about government the sales cycles are generally long when I say long year a year a year plus kind of sales cycle.
The deals are generally larger.
And our win rate in these long sales cycles large deals is very good.
We have over half the states for example in Medicaid et cetera.
So you'll see long sales cycles difficult challenging sales cycles that you have to stick with and that we can -- that we win.
And it's actually a good business.
It's a difficult one but a very good business.
In some of the ITO space the sales cycles are shorter so significantly shorter a quarter or less well.
And the deals are smaller obviously.
We have two that we signed this year this first quarter that are longer and bigger than historically but generally ITO has some walk in takeover deals and they have some shorter cycle deals.
So you see the spectrum of them.
Document Outsourcing is definitely in between those two not short not as long as some of the healthcare BPO type deals.
But they're in the middle of it.
So you see them across the board different durations of selling before you actually win.
And the alignment between how long it takes to sell and the size of the deal is pretty much one-to-one with the long sales cycle the deals generally a lot bigger.
Pricing what we see is that the goal in pricing for new deals is generally attractive very attractive.
It remains attractive through the contract.
Renewals are generally at a lower pricing than the old -- than the first time in for sure almost everywhere.
And what we find is that what supports this lower pricing is our intimacy and knowledge and the customer's intimacy and knowledge of us.
So we can actually still extract good margins equal margins or improving margins the longer we are with the customer because we actually know how to actually streamline the operations we give to them.
One of the things that we do for example is to never make the margins get too high too high because the customers would actually feel disappointed and think that we are actually not sharing the benefits adequately with them.
So whenever we get a really wide margin spread we would go to a customer and renegotiate it before the contract was up.
So margins pricing on a new deal is lower than pricing on the old or the renewed deals lower than pricing on the old deal margin should be the same and if we're really good at how we manage it a little bit of growth in the margins portion.
And then Luca? Yes.
So from a ramp-up perspective keep in mind we've got a very very diversified portfolio of services right? So a lot depends on the mix of the portfolio in places like ITO or customer care.
The ramp up is fairly quick in other places within BPO or transportation for example.
We're talking about much longer ramp up periods up to 18 months.
And also the profitability of the different lines of business is different.
So the net outcome of this is very influenced by mix.
We do expect -- you were asking about how do we think about gross margins for the Services business for the rest of the year.
We do expect the margin to be more or less where we are right now maybe a slight improvement because we continue to work on both on the restructuring initiatives and also on synergies also on the services side.
It's not only in technology.
So flat to slightly up for the year.
Okay.
Thanks to all of you for your time and for the good questions and for your interest.
I look forward to seeing you in May on May 10 at the investor conference.
Please enjoy the rest of the day.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining today's Xerox First Quarter 2011 Earnings Announcement Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We'll get started on Slide 3.
This is a reminder of the strategy that we're executing on to transform our business.
As I've said before many people talk about transformation and we're actually doing it.
Through these 4 priorities we mark our progress and measure our results.
First capturing the sizable opportunity from scaling our Services business.
You'll see this quarter that we grew our Services revenue by 6% with very strong performance in both Document Outsourcing and Business Process Outsourcing.
Our pipeline grew 21% and we continue to benefit from revenue synergies through cross-selling with ACS.
Second maintaining our leadership in document technology.
We continue to hold the #1 revenue market share position overall and in color and we are launching new products that solidify our strong leadership.
This quarter revenue in installed were impacted by the supply constraints stemming from the earthquake in Japan.
We're on track to reduce backlog while meeting new demand in the third quarter.
Third continue to improve the efficiency of our business operations running a lean and flexible annuity base business.
This served us particularly well in Q2.
Our disciplined approach to expense management offset the incremental supply chain costs and helped drive strong bottom line results.
By executing well on these first 3 priorities we are delivering on the fourth: expanding earnings and returning cash to shareholders.
Adjusted earnings per share were up 13% in Q2 so we're well positioned for a solid second half of 2011.
We plan to invest more in acquisitions that further scale our services and expand our distribution.
We'll resume our share repurchase program during the third quarter and we're increasing our expectations for full year earnings.
As with most businesses we face headwinds or tailwinds during any 90-day period.
Our success is determined by how agile we can be to effectively manage complex challenges while staying focused on our priorities.
Considering the Q2 cost and revenue headwinds related to Japan I'm pleased with our progress and confident in the direction that we're heading in for the rest of the year.
Now let's take a look at Q2 results.
Our performance in the quarter reflect progress in our Services-led technology-driven business and our sharp focus on operational improvement.
We delivered adjusted EPS of $0.27.
As I mentioned that's up 13% from a year ago.
Our GAAP -- on a GAAP basis earnings were $0.22 per share.
This includes $0.05 primarily from the amortization of intangibles.
Revenue was up 2% aided by the strong euro.
Technology revenue was flat and Services revenue increased 6%.
As we discussed during our Q1 earnings call supply constraints resulting from the earthquake in Japan did increase our costs and impact install activity and revenue in our technology business.
I'll provide a more detailed update in a moment that can tell you that we're already seeing significant improvement and we expect to be back to normal operations in the fourth quarter.
Our effective expense management helped to offset the incremental costs incurred from the supply chain challenges so we were able to maintain steady margins in the quarter.
Operating margin of 10.4% was up 3/10.
Gross margins of 33.4% is within our range and reflects the result of more revenue coming from services.
We generated $347 million in operating cash flow during Q2.
We faced some unique challenges relative to cash usage during the first half of the year including cash needs from ramping new contract signings and incremental cash required to support the supply chain constraints.
As a result we are lowering our full year guidance for operating cash flow to $2 billion to $2.3 billion.
Our second half of the year is typically stronger for cash generation so our plans stay the same for $1 billion in available cash to be used toward modestly sized acquisitions and about $700 million in share repurchase.
Considering our expectations for significant year-over-year cash improvement in 2012 we remain confident in our guidance for next year of $2.6 billion to $2.9 billion in cash from operations.
Our CFO Luca Maestri will provide more detail on cash flow and our financials in a moment.
Then Luca and I will both take your questions.
So let's turn to Slide 5.
Before we go into more detail on the results here's the status on the supply chain issue.
The Q2 impact was expected and created a backlog for orders taken in the quarter orders that we'll be filling during the balance of the year.
We're working very closely with our colleagues in Japan to accelerate production and ensure we're meeting our customers' needs.
That means alternate sourcing for components and materials often at a higher cost and it means more expensive distribution methods like airfreight to expedite shipping.
We're pleased with Fuji Xerox's operational management during this challenging time.
As you will see in the Q2 results our equity income from FX was better than expected.
It is difficult to project if this will continue since FX is still working through the uncertainties in their business and in their geography.
We continue to expect that production levels will be back on track over the next couple of months and that we'll resume normal supply chain operations later in Q3 and into Q4.
We maintain a 24/7 focus on management situation in Japan and throughout our supply chain.
I'm confident that the worst is behind us so we can focus intently now on reducing backlog and meeting new demand.
Let's turn to Slide 6 for a more detailed review of Q2 revenue.
Here you'll see the relatively even revenue contributions from our Services and Technology business.
We expect that Services percentage will continue to grow as we invest more in broadening our outsourcing portfolio and expanding our offerings globally.
This growth strategy results in more long-term contracts that benefit our annuity stream which is now 84% of total revenue.
Total revenue of $5.6 billion was up 2% or down 1% in constant currency.
Equipment sales as I said were largely impacted by the supply constraints.
With a series of recent product launches and a supply chain recovery we expect improved equipment sales in the second half of the year.
As Luca will share with you our new products are very well-received in the marketplace and fill a need for affordable and more productive color printing in offices and print shops.
Please turn to Slide 7 for a review of key metrics in our Technology business.
The metrics on this slide will look very familiar to you.
We've reported on them for a while reflecting our strategic focus on moving black-and-white pages to color devices.
You'll see strong progress this quarter with color MIF growth of 15% and color page growth of 8%.
Digital page trends are the same on a quarter-to-quarter basis no change and continue to reflect declines in transactional black-and-white pages.
It's important to note that our MIF metrics exclude printers exclude our business in developing markets and products sold through Global Imaging Systems.
And page counts include only estimates in those 3 areas.
That said as we execute on our strategy to expand in direct channels to increase our Global Imaging business and to grow Document Outsourcing we increasingly have less ability to accurately measure all the pages printed on Xerox systems and the number of machines in the field.
So going forward you'll see us report less on MIF in pages.
Instead we'll provide more context on install activity and revenue growth.
More important to our annuity streams is our growth in services.
The multiyear contracts from -- for our Outsourcing business deliver stronger recurring revenue.
In Q2 Services revenue was up 6% or 4% in constant currency.
Our leadership in Managed Print Services contributed to 10% growth in our Document Outsourcing business and the breadth of our offerings in Business Process Outsourcing resulted in 9% BPO growth.
Strength in both of these areas offset a decline this quarter in IT Outsourcing.
Luca will share more details in a moment.
I'm often asked if the pressure on government spending are impacting our business especially in the BPO space.
We are exceptionally well positioned with federal state and local governments around the world.
Revenue from our government contracts often fluctuates based on usage patterns.
For example in Q2 growth in transportation services helped offset the lower volumes from unemployment claims.
This is another benefit of having a diverse portfolio in BPO.
It gives us flexibility to manage through the changing dynamics in government spending.
So our government business does go through cycles but net-net we review our strong -- we view our strong hold in this space as a key asset of our business today and going forward.
In the quarter signings for Xerox's services totaled $3.5 billion up more than 15% from last quarter and down 10% on a trailing 12-month basis.
This decline was due to the cyclical nature of contract signings and longer lead times for large multiyear deals some of which were completed this month.
Our pipeline remains very strong up 21% in helping to fuel our healthy annuity stream for the long term.
So summing up the quarter.
I'd characterize it as a good overall progress quarter especially considering the unprecedented supply chain challenges.
We've effectively executed on all of our key priorities which are: scaling our Services business through our expertise in management services and BPO strengthening our leadership in Document Technology through expanded distribution and innovation that accelerates the adoption of color effectively managing our global operations and generating cash so that we can return shareholder value through stock buyback and dividends.
With that let me turn it over to Luca and I'll be back to wrap up and open the call to your questions.
Luca? Thank you Ursula and good morning everyone.
This was a challenging quarter in some respects given the impact from Japan but eventually we were successful in offsetting the constraint to revenues and deliver strong EPS.
This is encouraging as we look forward to a Q3 where we should see recovering Technology and acceleration in Services.
Revenue growth was 2% in Q2 at actual currency with a 3-point benefit from currency.
Services drove the growth and was up 6% while Technology was flat.
In the second half we expect revenue to be within our 3% to 5% guidance range.
Operating margin in the quarter was 10.4% up 3x year-over-year and up over 1 point from Q1.
We saw sequential improvement also in gross margin.
However year-over-year gross margin was impacted by the mix of business by the ramp of new service contracts and incremental supply chain cost related to Japan.
This impact was more than offset by disciplined expense management.
RD&amp;E and SAG ratios improved significantly due to restructuring synergies and improved bad debt trend.
We remain on track for our full year objectives of $270 million of restructuring savings and over $120 million of cost synergies.
Equity income in the quarter was $34 million which slightly exceeded our expectations and reflected restructuring benefits at Fuji Xerox more than offsetting the disruption from the tsunami.
The $34 million includes $4 million in Fuji Xerox restructuring costs which we are not adjusting out this year.
Adjusted EPS was $0.27 and grew 13% year-over-year.
The only adjustment to reported EPS were the amortization of intangibles and the loss on early extinguishment of liability from the redemption of the trust preferred securities that we mentioned during the Q1 call.
As a result GAAP EPS was up 38% year-over-year.
Let us now move to the Technology segment on Slide 9.
Technology revenue up $2.5 billion was flat at actual currency and down 4% at constant currency due in large part to the impact of Japan on product availability.
Segment margin of 11.8% was up over 1 point year-on-year and continues to reflect the benefits from restructuring and synergy savings.
Entry install performance is weighted heavily towards developing markets and as I indicated during the Q1 call face a difficult compare in Q2 given the 56% install growth that we had during Q2 of 2010.
The recent product launches should drive improvement in this product segment during the second half.
Mid-range growth continued despite being the product segment most impacted by the Japan shortages.
This performance reflects our very competitive color portfolio which was further strengthened by the launch of our latest ColorQube family of products in Q2 and we expect this favorable trend to continue as we start to address our backlog situation in Q3.
In high-end we saw mixed performance.
iGen4 had a very strong quarter reflecting demand for new features.
The 800/1000 Color Press also showed good growth but not enough to offset declines in the Entry Production Color space.
We have a product gap in this category which we anticipate will be helped by a series of product actions the first of which is the recent launch of the new 8080 product line.
In summary good progress on cost and expenses offsetting impacts from Japan to drive operating profit growth of 10%.
Moving on to Services Slide 10.
Services revenue was up 6% with BPO up 9% and Document Outsourcing up 10%.
ITO revenue was down 10%.
BPO's 9% growth was driven by recent acquisitions as well as human resources and healthcare payer services and by increasing customer care and transportation volumes.
This growth more than offset declines in government services lower unemployment claims volume as an example and the timing of contract runoff and ramp.
BPO signings were at $1.8 billion which is lower year-on-year but up over 40% sequentially.
And we have good prospects and high expectations for BPO signings in Q3 which has started on a strong note.
ITO revenue declined 10% driven by lower third-party hardware and software sales and lower recurring revenue as we have not yet seen the contract ramp from recent strong signings.
Document Outsourcing had a very good quarter with revenue up 10% thanks to the ramp of the new signings and improving page volumes.
Signings of $1.4 billion were also strong with both renewals and new business up double digits.
Overall signings declined 10% on a trailing 12-month basis but grew over 15% sequentially.
The trailing 12-months calculation includes the 10-year $1.6 billion California Medicaid deal we signed in Q1 of 2010 as well as the Texas Medicaid renewal that occurred in Q2 of 2010 for close to $1 billion.
We continue to see strong growth in our Services pipeline up 21% including synergies and this is of course a positive indicator for future signings.
Segment margin of 12.1% was up 1.8 points sequentially but down 0.5 point year-on-year reflecting impact from contract start-up cost and lower volumes in some government transaction areas.
In summary overall solid performance in Services with expectations for improvement both in signings and in ITO during Q3.
With that I now move to the balance sheet slide.
As we communicated during Q1 earnings we called our 2027 trust preferred securities in Q2 and we refinanced this amount by a very successful bond offering at lower cost.
These securities carried an 8% coupon and this action will reduce interest expense.
Our Q2 ending debt balance increased to $9.3 billion but to be clear our interest-bearing liabilities remain unchanged as the trust preferreds used to be reported as a separate balance sheet line.
The vast majority of our debt is as you know in support of our financing business.
Of the $9.3 billion debt balance $6.3 billion can be associated with the financing of Xerox equipment for our customers.
The finance debt is calculated assuming a 7:1 leverage of our finance assets of $7.2 billion and these finance assets represent committed revenue streams from our customers.
We have a debt payment in August which will get us to our year-end debt balance of $8.6 billion and with the majority of our debt supporting our financing business we have a strong capital structure in place allowing us to return value to shareholders starting in Q3.
Slide 12 provides further detail on our cash performance.
Cash from operations of $347 million improved over Q1 but fell short of our expectations.
Performance was driven by earnings of $327 million and working capital was a slight contribution to cash flow.
Pension and restructuring outflows as well as CapEx of $135 million were in line with plans.
While the second half of the year is seasonally our strongest we are reducing our full year operating cash flow forecast to a range of $2 billion to $2.3 billion to reflect our lower first half performance and some headwinds that are unique to this year.
First we are achieving growth in Services in a slightly different way than we had anticipated due in part to the mix of business and the combination of contract runoffs and revenue ramp.
For instance we're currently ramping multiple Medicaid and transportation contracts which require a major upfront cost before they produce significant revenue or cash.
We're also supporting ACS' investments in several new services platforms and we are seeing new signings with higher start-up cash requirements.
We're also affected by the situation in Japan.
In Q2 we have absorbed incremental cost and cash outflows related to air shipments sourcing from alternative suppliers as well as prepurchasing of materials.
This will continue into Q3.
The higher-than-normal inventory backlogs and the shift of revenue towards the end of the year also caused a negative impact on cash.
As Ursula said earlier this adjustment to 2011 guidance does not change our 2012 cash from operations guidance of $2.6 billion to $2.9 billion as we will have year-on-year improvement from lower pension funding lower restructuring payments and higher net income.
The guidance adjustment also does not impact the $1 billion of available cash for share repurchase and acquisitions.
Let me walk through the math.
CapEx forecast for the year is now slightly lower at $500 million.
This estimate is in line with the $246 million that we spent in the first half.
Debt reduction and dividend assumptions remain the same at $600 million and $300 million respectively.
The remainder of the available cash is coming from our year-end cash balance.
Cash from operations at the end of 2010 came in ahead of expectations and we exited the year with a cash balance of $1.2 billion.
We do not require a cash balance at this level and can make this excess cash available for share repurchases.
This gets us to approximately $1 billion of available cash consistent with our prior guidance of buying back $700 million of stock in 2011.
In conclusion we continue to execute on the strategy Ursula outlined in the beginning.
We grew earnings by 15% through a combination of Services growth operating margin improvement and lower interest expense.
And we are focused on leveraging our annuity-based business model to drive cash flow and return value to shareholders with a share repurchase program beginning this quarter.
With that back to Ursula.
Thanks Luca.
Let me quickly wrap up so that we can get to your questions.
Xerox is now the world's largest enterprise for business process and document management.
Our expanded offerings our broad distribution channels our global scale renowned brand and innovation give us a differentiated advantage in the marketplace.
We're leveraging this competitive position by taking a services-led technology-driven approach to growing our business.
And we continue to operate efficiently maintaining steady margins and increasing earnings despite the recent Japan impact and -- on cost and revenue.
Our capital strategy contributes to our bottom line result and positions us well to continue delivering shareholder value from dividends and beginning in quarter 3 share repurchase.
We're on track to deliver solid results in the second half and we're increasing our full year guidance.
Full year expectations for adjusted EPS have been raised to $1.07 to $1.12 per share.
For the third quarter we expect to deliver adjusted earnings of $0.24 to $0.26 per share.
And with that I thank you again for joining us today and now let's open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Benjamin Reitzes with Barclays Capital.
Can you talk about what gives you confidence that you can generate so much cash in the second half to still hit your lowered estimate? I mean you got to do close to $2 billion in cash flow from operations in the back half of the year the high billions at least.
How do you get there? Yes Ben.
As you know second half is seasonally strong.
If you go back and look at the past years you see that we generated very significant amount of cash during the second half.
Look at the for example in 2010 cash generation.
So that earnings are stronger.
We expect working capital to be favorable and those are going to be the primary drivers so we are fairly confident that we're going to get to that range.
Okay.
And then what is the savings from the interest expense the lower interest expense? If you're going to buy over the next year and a half $1.7 billion in stock what happens to the interest and other expense? Does it stay the same or are there real savings there? So interest expense are going to be significantly down this year because we're taking debt down and we are refinancing at better rates.
For example with the refinancing of the trust preferreds we'll be generating on an annual basis about $20 million savings.
About $11 million of debt will have an impact during 2011.
And so we will continue to see reduced interest cost as we go into 2012 as well.
The share repurchase will come from available cash and we do not expect any requirements to increase debt for that.
Yes and you're not earning much on that I'm sure.
Okay and then you still committed to buying back $1 billion next year even though you have lower cash flow than expected this year? Our buying back for next year we talked about having $2 billion of cash available and we actually said 70% so it's probably going to be a higher amount.
Yes higher amount than the $1 billion and we are still committed to the share repurchase starting this quarter flowing through the fourth quarter all the way into 2012.
Okay.
And my final question is just around changing metrics around the pages and machines in field et cetera.
So I think at your Analyst Day you said "Well pages are going to decline but we have higher-value pages so we can still grow." So I guess I just want to ask big-picture is that still true? And then secondarily I wanted to ask about just in terms of what metrics -- you want us to focus on MIF and how are we going to use that to really understand the growth of the Technology? Thanks for the question.
On the changing metrics I think I gave a little bit of color on what's happening.
It's actually good news for our business.
It's implementing a strategy that we laid out.
We have a great channel in Global Imaging and we're moving more and more accounts over to Global Imaging to -- for them to farm and grow.
We have a growing reseller business where we acquire distribution and move them onto Xerox technology.
We have growing business in DMO.
You get the message that literally we're moving our distribution channels to more -- to a broader set of channels.
The good news about that is that we get more activity.
The bad news about that is that we don't get all of the visibility that we would have gotten if we sold them directly through our channels.
And while I'm not trying to hide anything we're just trying to not estimate on estimate or estimate and get ourselves into a level of inaccuracy.
So what we're trying to do and what we will do on a go-forward basis is to tell you in detail the activity levels that we achieve and the split of that activity level between black-and-white and color.
And we can tell you that because we see that throughout our chain.
And we'll talk about revenue.
And revenue split by black-and-white and color will also give an indication of how we're performing in our metrics.
So installed or activity and revenue are the places that we'll focus as much energy as we can to give as much visibility as we can.
So this is not to try to hide anything.
It's literally just that our business is actually growing in ways that we don't have deep visibility into the pages or to MIF.
I hope I answered your...
Our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> I guess the first question is can you give us some sense of sort of the slope of sort of the return in business as you work through the Japanese supply constraints? And do you think -- I mean is it your opinion that we'll exit this year enter next year with the Japanese supply chain issues behind us? The answer is we have seen -- we've started to see improvement at the tail end of last quarter and we're starting to see it in the beginning of this quarter.
This is not an inexpensive way to do business.
So what -- 2 things will happen in the rest of the year.
One is we have a backlog that's buildup.
We are staying in contact with those customers obviously making sure that we keep the orders on hold and as the supply chain loosens up as Fuji Xerox production continues to ramp and we get them here generally still in third quarter by flying them here so the cost will still be high.
As we get them here we'll be able to not only alleviate some of the backlog but we'll also be able to fulfill new demand and that's the mix that we have to do.
As we go into fourth quarter the production should be at regular levels and we should be tailing out of still having some but tailing out of shipping things here by air.
Now there's a lot of ancillary costs around that that we don't talk about.
It's really complicated as you said to manage this.
We have parts that we have to move around in an unusual way.
We have people that we have to move around in an unusual way.
I think that by fourth quarter we should be done with a lot of the big noise.
We should be into a fairly normal operation in the first half of next year for sure.
We should be on a regular business-as-usual basis.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay Ursula that's helpful.
I guess just a follow-up to that is there any chance that if you don't see demand come back and if you really -- you think it will that there's some sort of counterbalance on the cost side that would kind of sort of serve as tailwind to top income dollar.
So for example if you don't need -- demand doesn't materialize you don't need to airfreight certain things out so you get a bit of a counterbalance there.
Is that not the right way to think about it? Not the right way to think about it.
Let me be clear.
Demand is not the problem here.
Demand is not the problem.
I mean we always have demand problems as you know that's what we do.
We sell things.
People can just call them up and get them from us.
But this is not a demand issue.
This is a supply issue.
So we are -- we're responding to assuring that we don't keep customers hanging on for too long after they've already told us they're going to buy something and given us an order and that's where the costs are coming in.
If the orders don't come in I mean we don't incur the costs.
But the orders are coming in so we are incurring the costs.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
My first question is just about revenue expectations for the second half of the year.
Historically you see seasonal weakness in third quarter but it sounds like maybe that won't necessarily be the case this year given the backlog that you had in second quarter.
So if you could just kind of talk about how we should think about revenue and the various segments as we look at second -- the second half basically? We expect revenue growth for the second half to be within our guidance range of 3% to 5%.
And in terms of the dynamics of the 2 segments: Technology 1% to 3%; Services over 6%.
Okay.
But I mean is there -- when we think about the backlog it should -- I mean it seems as if you could have done better in terms of revenue in second quarter clearly because you weren't able to ship the products.
So how should...
If you look -- Shannon if I can just -- I'm sorry for interrupting you but if you look on our normal business seasonality we would have lower revenue in quarter 3 than we have in quarter 2.
It's usually our lighter -- our lightest quarter.
This year because of some of the reasons that you've brought up exactly we'll probably -- we will have higher revenue in quarter 3 than we had in quarter 2 so we will definitely see some of that recovery in quarter 3 from quarter 2.
We'll see improvement in Technology revenue in quarter 3 for sure.
Okay great.
That's what I thought was probably the case.
And then can you talk a bit about on the BPO signings? If we think of sort of net of the large contracts that you had in the prior year period what was the growth there? Are there any large contracts pending? Just how you sort of see the pipeline for BPO.
Okay let me start with the signings and then we'll talk about pipeline.
You're right we had 2 what we call megadeals that affect the metrics.
It's the California Medicaid and -- which was a new signing last year and Texas Medicaid which is a renewal from last year.
If you exclude from the calculation -- we don't want to exclude it because of course it's a good business for us.
But if you exclude the 2 megadeals in the metric then we would show signings growth of 9%.
The pipeline in BPO right now it is very strong.
We talked about a total Services pipeline of over 20% growth and BPO is in the same range.
And we've got a lot of good prospects particularly in the commercial area particularly on the Commercial segment.
Okay great.
And then my last question is just with regard to sort of end demand what you're hearing from your customers thoughts about Europe? Just any color you can give given some of the questions that are out there with regard to the macro events that are going on.
And it seems as if enterprise is holding in there but I'm curious as to what you're hearing.
We are seeing enterprise -- I'm going to end -- start with your last comment.
We are seeing enterprise hold up.
We're not -- it's interesting.
Europe is not -- we're not impacted by some of the situations in Europe yet but we are very cautious about this.
The trends here are not -- and the noise from this part of the world's not getting better.
I don't -- so we are operating really tight to the cuff to make sure that we don't get ahead of ourselves meaning that we know that we're not going to be oblivious to the continued weakness economic weakness in Europe.
So we're not seeing it yet but we'll see how it goes.
U.S.
enterprise is good.
It's -- no fundamental change.
We are seeing slowing of decisions particularly in the government sector which doesn't surprise anyone and volume's down in some parts of our government business.
Luca referred to unemployment benefits which are down primarily because people are rolling off the rolls not necessarily because they're getting jobs.
So government we see -- it's still a great business for us still strong local state and federal but it goes up and down depending on the contracts that we see.
Technology business it's kind of going along as normal.
We don't see a lot of changes anywhere in the world.
We do see weakness which we saw last quarter in the Middle East but we're just dealing with that as a normal outcome of a business.
And strength in Russia normal flows there.
And I know you don't sell into China but through Fuji Xerox and what you've done there as well as India.
Any comments on sort of what you're seeing there? We do sell into India and we are particularly pleased with some of our Services success in India.
That's where we're focusing a lot of our energy particularly Document Outsourcing services where we've engaged with a significantly deeper and more pointed focus since the beginning of this year and we're seeing some success there.
And Luca why don't you talk about China? So China in general Asia Pacific was a good region for Fuji Xerox during Q2.
Of course they got significant issues in Japan.
And the issues in Japan will continue into Q3 particularly they're going to have power shortages during the summer.
So yes I mean there Asia-Pacific and China business helped offset some of the domestic situation.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.
Ursula is there any way to normalize what revenues would've been if you could've gotten normal fulfillment? Just what would revenue growth have been in either in total or however you want to answer it? Yes.
We think that we -- at a minimum we were impacted by about 3 percentage points at a minimum in Technology.
It didn't really affect anywhere else in Technology at a minimum.
Now the reason why we haven't gotten into this and trying to do a big mathematical thing is because when something like this happens you do a lot of things.
One of them is to redirect your sales force.
And you make them because we have a supply shortage significantly less effective than they would have been normally.
So we don't spend a lot of time actually trying to figure that out.
What we are preparing to do is to assure that we have which is what we're doing the supply that's needed to back-fill -- to fulfill all of the backlog and to take on new demand.
But yes we definitely suffered to the -- at least 3%.
That's what we know the orders that we know that we couldn't...
Okay.
And then Luca when you gave the revenue targets for September just to be clear were those in constant currency or as you think they'll be reported with the help of FX? Yes good question.
Sorry I didn't mention it before.
3% to 5% we're saying right now for the second half of the year.
We say constant currency.
And of course if the rates stay where they are right now there could be an uplift of another point or so from currency.
Okay then fair enough.
And then on -- ITO was a little certainly a little lower than we were thinking.
How does that track as we get into the second half of the year? Yes better.
So ITO was not a strong point for us in the quarter.
Interestingly enough we had some really good -- very good signings in ITO in the quarter but we had a little bit higher-than-normal set of losses and some of those we knew.
We knew that we would be coming down in some of the ITO bids because they were ramping down not because we lost them but because they were not going to be there anymore.
What we see in signings as I said is a projection.
Signing projections are good and the contract ramp for some of the things that we won look good.
In quarter 3 we must we will include -- improve our ITO business.
As you know we talked about MGM and Allscripts 2 very very very large ITO bids that we won which is very encouraging.
BPO still stays like an engine and Document Outsourcing as well and ITO should improve in the second -- third quarter and fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then my last one is very strong expense management very nice job.
How does that -- how does SAG and R&amp;D track as we look at Q3 specifically? Because it looked like headcount stayed about the same and yet your expenses were down materially from the March quarter or from last year however you want to look at it.
So I think what we did in Q2 we really wanted to protect the quarter and we took a lot of actions and it came out right.
At the same time we want to balance this for the rest of the year with the idea we want to continue to invest in the business brand investment people investment and we want to grow the business.
So I would say that probably some of the performance that you've seen in Q2 will not repeat in the second half on the expense side.
Right so I would assume that translates to OpEx goes up sequentially from Q2? Not necessarily not necessarily.
I...
Slightly.
Right slightly.
So yes I think we have a really good pulse on our cost and expense in the businesses as you know and if you've been following us.
The balance here is as Luca said it's really important.
We have an anomaly in quarter 2 that will carry on some to quarter 3.
What we have to balance we have to do this -- in a sense we have to do this in cash.
We want to actually make a quarter and rob the business for the future so we had to invest in people.
We continue to invest in people.
We continue to invest in our brand.
We're continuing to invest in the BPO and ITO business to make sure that we can grow that.
And to make sure that we could do that we took some extraordinary actions on cost but not so much that they would actually -- they're not so wild that we can't keep some of them going.
Our next question comes from the line of Deepak Sitaraman with Crédit Suisse.
Ursula on Services your 6%-plus growth outlook appears to be at the higher end of the 4% to 7% guidance range you've talked about in the past.
So assuming that the deal and the ITO pieces of it grow in the mid-single digits on a full year basis that obviously implies very strong double-digit full year growth for BPO.
First of all I guess can you just clarify how much of that is coming from acquisition? And secondly I think you mentioned commercial has been strong but any other color you can share on verticals or even geographies that are driving strength when you look out would be very helpful.
Yes I'll have Luca start on this one so -- and then I'll dive in after...
Yes so in BPO clearly we are expecting to continue to grow very robustly.
A good chunk of the increase comes from acquisition you were asking the question.
Out of the 9% I would say 5 points this quarter were from recent acquisitions so obviously this is part of our model right? We continue to make acquisitions in the BPO space to fuel this growth.
It is the growth engine really for us and also on the Services side so you should expect to see growth rates that are above the range that we've given for the Services segment overall.
Right.
And then as far as color on the mix you were right.
Commercial was stronger than government.
The mix of commercial is in our sweet spots the spots that we participate in and participate well -- in all of the customer care some of the healthcare sides of the business in transportation for sure.
We had strong signings across the board and we were able to have some of those signings over 15 of them in Europe -- outside of the United States.
So we're starting to see the expansion that the strategy calls for which is to have every line of business contribute to growth and to accelerate that growth by going outside of the United States and we're doing both of those.
The notable difference is in certain segments of the government where we're seeing 2 dynamics.
One is volumes being a little bit lower.
We talked about unemployment as one.
Clearly that's obvious people can understand that but -- transactions like that.
But also in for our new business that we're seeing coming that we're pursuing longer times to get to closure of a deal meaning we're participating very well.
And we are often down- selected but we have to do a lot of work with state and federal governments to get the thing actually signed.
Not perfect but very very good that we are in the throes of the last deals and they'll eventually come.
It's just taking a little bit longer.
So commercial good; healthcare good; transportation customer care good; federal okay but a little bit slower than I would like it to be.
And then ITO as we said we had a weakness in the second quarter that will definitely be remediated in the third given the ramp that we're going to see from the signings that we already have.
Okay that's really helpful.
I guess if I could just ask one more Ursula.
You've noted a couple of times today just expectations for a very solid second half yet when we look at your revised EPS guidance for the year you've taken the full year guidance up roughly by the amount of the second quarter beat.
I guess should we read into that as conservatism? Or is there anything else you're trying to signal in terms of visibility or some other uncertainty that's being factored into that guidance? Yes I'm definitely not trying to signal conservatism.
That's -- I probably shouldn't be chuckling about it.
It's hard to get through these quarters as you probably know.
What we -- we have headwinds for sure that we're working our way through from a slowdown in the economy.
There's no doubt that that's -- we're navigating well but we don't see a big tailwind from the economic forces around the world anywhere.
We still see headwinds from Japan.
We are balancing that headwind with all of the things that we're doing to run the business.
And I think that the guidance that we've given for the second half is prudent very prudent given all that we're trying to do and all that we're trying to balance.
I think you're right.
I think we are quite bullish on revenue.
We definitely see some pressure on margins Japan being a case in point because of course the old incremental costs that come with that.
But in general because of the uncertainty that you see around the world in Europe in government the supply chain where we see -- we sense some pressure on margin and therefore we balance these things and that's the way we ended up with the revised guidance.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Gardner with Citigroup.
I wanted to go back to Japan and the cost side of the equation there.
I know that most of your product coming out of Japan typically goes on a boat.
And you probably had sufficient product to handle demand during the first half of Q2.
I guess the question is should we expect airfreight and other logistics-related costs to actually go up in the third quarter as you try to work down the backlog? Or do you expect those costs to go down sequentially? No airfreight will definitely go up in quarter 3.
There's -- it will definitely go up in quarter 3.
And I think you understand why.
You produce -- we could put everything on a boat but then we'd -- customers would definitely not be pleased with us because they've been waiting for a while.
So what we're doing is balancing towards the heavy side particularly in quarter 3 the first portion of quarter 3 a large amount of our supply coming by air.
Because now they've made it and in order to get it here in a reasonable time it'll come by air.
As we get to quarter 4 tail end of quarter 3 and quarter 4 we start to put more and more things on the boat and the timing should be able to work to have a normal supply gap order-to-install gap for clients.
And if it turns out the way that we are predicting and the way that -- we have people all over the place in Japan including our guys there we should be able to be into normal airship in the fourth quarter.
But the third quarter will definitely be heavy -- heavier into airship than even we were in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then I guess the logical follow-up Ursula is how much of the incremental cost is associated with airfreight? And if we take a look at total cost associated with the tragedy there will they be up or down sequentially in Q3? They'll be up in Q3.
They'll be up in Q3 no doubt about it.
And total costs we just haven't really -- we haven't really given it out.
Part of the reason is we haven't really stepped back yet and added it all up.
I mean we're adding it up as it goes.
And we will work that with our partners around the world et cetera et cetera but it's -- quarter 3 is going to be a little bit more intensive [ph].
It's comprehended in the numbers that we've given you for sure.
But yes not much more to say.
The freight is an important element of the incremental costs but we set up alternative supply as we prepurchase materials so there's many different costs that come into the equation.
Clearly airfreight is an expensive proposition though.
Actually could I ask one more question? No -- yes.
A little bit of a longer-term question.
On ACS you're taking down your cash flow guidance this year in part due to the fact that you've got more new business this year than you had expected and less renewal.
You've also talked about a big opportunity for ACS longer term being expanding that business into Europe.
And a question that I get a lot from investors is whether there's going to be another surprise in terms of cash flow or expense guidance next year as you ramp up investments in infrastructure to handle that expansion of ACS into Europe leveraging Xerox's presence there.
I'd love to get your thoughts on that.
So clearly expanding into new market require some use of capital.
At the same time we are present in Europe.
We're going to try to go to market with a model that really leverages the existing Xerox infrastructure that already is present in Europe.
There's going to be some use of capital but we are comprehending that into our numbers.
As we look at 2012 cash really there are some drivers that are outside of the ongoing operations that will provide us some positive factors.
I mean we're going to be spending less on pensions.
We're going to be spending less on restructuring.
So we feel that we certainly are going to generate more cash next year.
ACS already today even though most of their business is U.S.-based today they already have a global delivery model.
So it's not that we need to go and invest on the delivery model.
It's more like the sales force end of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
I have a question I guess digging a bit more into the cash flow which I know you've had a lot of questions on already.
But I recognize that you guys are pretty confident in the second half and that lends to confidence in a new target.
But on the off chance or the low-probability event that you do have some incremental unexpected pressure on cash flow in the second half how should we think about the risk to the buyback program? How much buffer room do you have in terms of that cash flow target coming down and in terms of maybe pulling from other areas of capital management to maintain the current share buyback target if unexpected events occur on the cash flow line? We consider the share buyback a key priority for the second half.
So obviously we're going to be very focused on getting to an available cash of $1 billion.
The $300 million on acquisitions I would say is a number that is on the low end of the range that we've given previously and we feel that it is part of our model -- of our growth model so we need to continue to spend on acquisitions.
But there's a number of items on the profit and loss and in the cash flow that we're going to be working very hard.
And as we think about priorities we know that we need to deliver on the buyback.
Okay great.
And then one final question.
You had mentioned earlier that you had longer lead times on signing in multiyear Services contracts.
Can you give us a little more color on how you're thinking about this as a near-term dynamic or a longer-term dynamic? And if it is a longer-term dynamic what do you think is driving that? Is this an industry-wide phenomenon? Or is this something that's sort of endemic to Xerox specifically? Yes I don't think it's endemic to Xerox at all.
I think the bigger the contract and this is what would -- when I talk about longer cycles for signing generally in government and generally big things.
I mean these are not fall-off-the-lot contracts.
So it's definitely associated -- it's an industry-wide phenomenon.
It's associated with some of the uncertainty in government just changes.
You get new people sitting in different chairs that kind of stuff and the fact that they're big.
I would not -- this is not -- should not be considered like a problem.
It clearly is -- fix is the word.
It gives you some ups and downs in quarters but they do sign.
They do sign.
They have to sign because the work has to get done.
And generally if they sign we win.
So I am confident in this part of the business just getting back to normal.
I don't think it's something I think you said endemic or systematic.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
I also had a cash flow question or 2.
Of the $350 million of cash flow reduction in the guidance for the year how much is related to the supply chain? And how much is related to the Services business? I would say it's 60-40.
60 Services; 40 Japan.
And does that upfront capital commitment -- I guess I'm trying to understand why that wouldn't continue as you try and grow that business going forward.
Have you changed any of the terms and conditions you're willing to take on in trying to close some of these contracts? And to sustain growth why wouldn't you continue to need to deploy that capital? Some of the increased cash requirements are coming from the fact that our renewals are maybe slightly less than we would like right? And hopefully that trend will not continue going forward.
Secondly we have a number of investments going on right now for Services platforms.
Think of this Medicaid platform which we call enterprise and then we've got another platform called eligibility again related to government services.
These are investments that once they're made we're going to leverage throughout a number of business lines and so we do not feel that they're going to be a recurring drain on cash.
But clearly we've always said it all along if you want to grow working capital probably it's not going to be the source of cash that it has been for Xerox in 2009 2010.
For my last question I wanted to come back to the question around page growth.
Last year for all of last year equipment sales grew around 9%.
And now that's continuing to translate into what about 4% 5% declines in page volume? What does it take to get that page volume to turn up? Yes so part of the reason why we're actually thinking about this is because we absolutely do see activity and activity install -- activity growth color growth et cetera all of the things that we spoke about.
There's a lot of stuff going through different methodologies that don't -- we don't naturally capture.
As I said Global Imaging growing like a weed.
The pages that are captured -- the equipment that goes into Global Imaging and the pages that come from there the best that we can do is estimate them.
DMO continuing to grow.
The best we can do from that is estimate them.
So I -- and then competitive devices that we have when we win Document Outsourcing deals we don't count them at all.
So we just can't be as accurate as we once were in this area.
I think that we are seeing in this bad time sequential flatness so we're seeing no change which if you think about it based on what happened in the second quarter of this year is actually a good sign a good indicator.
Bigger mix towards color.
From the things that we can even count a stability in pages.
And then the places that we don't count a significant growth in activity.
So I actually -- particularly in Global Imaging and in DMO.
So I actually am feeling better about pages than I have in the past.
And so what does it take to turn them? I think we're doing all it takes which is selling more installing the right types of devices et cetera protecting the base that -- like we can et cetera.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
A couple of questions here real quickly.
Luca could you talk a little more about how investors should think about the contribution to earnings from revenue growth and mix longer term? Obviously share buybacks can help out here in the near- to mid-term and you guys have some incremental OpEx activities.
But when do we really get the benefit from revenue growth and mix? For which year? Well let's do 2012 to start.
So we talked about revenue growth next year of say 4% to 6%.
We think that that growth should translate into earnings.
Mix is going to be primarily towards Services which carry slightly better margins than Technology so that should be a positive as well.
And then the...
So the business -- I'm sorry go ahead go ahead.
Please continue and then I'll kind of bring it all together at the end.
Go for it.
Well I was going to ask just in terms of -- your confidence today seems a little less than usual Ursula regarding the color business.
Can you guys just talk a little more about -- maybe clarify on what happened in color in terms of the high-end deterioration? How much was tougher compares versus the supply constraints versus other? Yes I am actually just the opposite on the color business.
I -- we have unbelievable activity levels given the supplied constraint that we had in mid-range color.
So in the office color space we are "growing like a weed." We're doing very very well.
At the very high end of color the iGen space very big page compares [ph].
iGen space and the 8000/100 (sic) [800/1000] the Color Press series very very strong performance.
We had I talked about this last quarter as well we have a gap in the high end of the Entry Production Space.
We have a gap that we are filling.
We launched a product -- just launched a product called the 8080 and we have more offerings to come that will help us regain our position in this space.
I actually feel extremely confident about color.
And interestingly enough I am very confident about black-and-white.
The only problem with black-and-white is this is not growing but our share position is very strong.
If a deal comes up we win more than 3/4 of the time so I'm strong there confident there.
It's just that that portion is not growing.
I spend a lot of time on color we spend a lot of time on color and we are all over it.
We're #1 color shareholder we're #1 revenue shareholder et cetera.
So I don't want you to walk away from this call with a statement that we're not confident -- that I'm not confident about it.
It's just the opposite.
I'm actually very confident about it.
And as supply comes I think we'll be fine here totally fine here.
Thank you all for joining us today and I will see you in the field myself and Luca.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation’s Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or re-broadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We'll get started on Slide 3.
To set the stage here is a year-to-date review of the strategy that is transforming our business.
First accelerating our Services business growing it faster by diversifying our offerings and expanding globally.
Through the third quarter revenue from Services is up 6%.
Backed by a very positive pipeline we've been especially pleased with the new contracts we've signed this year.
Our new business signings are up 7% year-to-date.
Second we're a services-led technology-driven company which means maintaining our leadership in document technology is a top priority.
We continue to hold our #1 equipment revenue market share position and we've already launched 21 new products this year.
And we are competitively advantaged through the breadth of our portfolio our multiple sales channels and through our innovative workflow and managed print solutions.
Third we're managing our business with a disciplined focus on operational excellence.
Our productivity initiatives this year have helped offset the challenges from the Japan natural disaster and other macro dynamics.
By executing well on the first 3 priorities we are delivering on the fourth expanding earnings and returning cash to shareholders.
Through October 24 we've bought back $450 million in Xerox shares with another $250 million planned through the end of the year.
And year-to-date adjusted earnings per share are up 17%.
We're on track to grow full year earnings by 15% to 18%.
The year clearly has not been without challenges but I'm pleased with the progress that we're making on all 4 priorities all of which collectively deliver value for our shareholders.
Part of the value comes in how we're redefining our business and our brand.
As a company in the midst of transformation I spend a lot of time talking with stakeholders about the new Xerox.
It's no surprise that our brand is known for great printing technology but it's often a big surprise to learn that our technology and services not only change the way the people work but also how they live.
Turn to Slide 4 for some examples of what I mean.
This is a snapshot of the many ways our innovation is integrated into solutions that simplify how the world works.
Through our transportation solutions group we're working with municipalities around the world to modernize their public transit systems.
In cities like Abu Dhabi where public transport -- transit use is expected to grow 5x in the next 20 years we've developed a new payment system that require nothing more than a preloaded debit card.
Our role is to handle all the project management the IT integration processing and payment reconciliation.
As the largest provider of transportation services to governments worldwide we have projects in 30 countries.
Our digital solutions for tolling parking and public transit are being replicated across multiple geographies from New York Mexico City and L.A.
to Casablanca New Jersey and 400 other municipalities around the world.
The next example is electronic claims processing.
This reflects our expertise in bridging the digital and paper divide.
With health care payers including government agencies like the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs we've created the infrastructure and are managing the process to convert a paper-based claims system into a digital one.
The new system for the VA will significantly reduce backlogs and more accurately process benefit claims for veterans and their dependents.
We're also making it easier for health care companies to communicate with their members.
At Medco we're developing and managing a multi-channel platform that lets Medco's 65 million members personalize how they receive information from the company via hard copy statements secure websites e-mail/text messages or a combination of all of these channels.
It's a solution that is providing -- is proven to be relevant for several member-based industries and one that is increasing our revenue with banks and other financial services firms.
All 3 examples demonstrate repeatable scalable and integrated solutions.
This is our approach to real business improving our client productivity by simplifying the way that they serve their clients.
Our results in the quarter reflect progress in these and other areas.
So let's turn to Slide 5 for a review of Q3 performance.
In the third quarter we delivered adjusted EPS of $0.26.
That's up 18% from a year ago.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $0.22 per share.
This includes $0.04 related to the amortization of intangibles.
Revenue was up 3% reflecting growth in Services and aided by the strong euro.
Technology revenue was up 1% and Services revenue increased 6%.
Supply constraints due to the natural disaster in Japan have eased considerably and as we shared with you last quarter we've been working very closely with our colleagues in Japan to accelerate production and ensure that we're meeting our customers' needs.
We've made significant progress in reducing our backlog while meeting new demand and I'm very confident that these challenges are now entirely behind us.
Operating margin of 9.6% was up 0.4 this quarter and gross margin of 32.7% is down.
As demand increases for our outsourcing services we do see an impact on gross margin which we continue to offset with cost reductions and operational improvements as you see in our improved SAG results all of which helped deliver solid bottom line results.
Cash from operations was $366 million.
We've generated $683 million in cash from quarter 3.
With quarter 4 always our strongest quarter for cash generation we remain committed to delivering at least $2 billion in full year operating cash and will continue to use available cash for acquisitions and share repurchase.
In a moment Luca will provide more detail on cash flow as well as review our balance sheet and reporting segments then we'll both take your questions.
But first let's take a closer look at our top line results on Slide 6.
A year ago revenue from Technology and Services was almost equal.
Now Services represents a higher percentage of our total revenue reflecting investments in building our outsourcing portfolio and expanding our offerings globally.
This growth strategy is generating more long-term contracts and as I noted earlier more new business signings all of which fuel growth in our annuity stream.
Total revenue of $5.6 billion was up 3% with both annuity and equipment sales up 3%.
Equipment sales are up sequentially as well reflecting progress we've made in reducing backlog creating demand for new products and the effectiveness of our growing Managed Print Services.
There is no doubt that we have industry leadership in MPS and we're strengthening this leadership by broadening our offerings.
This includes print services geared for midsized businesses and sold through our channel partners and managing an enterprise's entire print infrastructure from their outsourced production printing through to individual worker's mobile print needs.
Continued external recognition speaks to the competitive advantage of our services-led technology-driven strategy and it's helping us grow our business.
Revenue from Document Outsourcing was up 12% in the quarter and BPO was up 6%.
Joint sales activities between Xerox and ACS have resulted in more than 200 revenue synergy deals this year delivering significant total contract value for the company and helping grow our pipeline.
These deals include a multiyear contract with a major telecom company to administer their employee benefits and a big win with a pharma company to help manage their global learning systems.
And at National Grid the global gas and electricity company we've developed an integrated solution to redesign their worldwide print and IT infrastructure.
So summing up the quarter we're executing well across the business.
We delivered steady revenue growth along with earnings and cash in line with our expectations.
We effectively managed through the supply chain constraints.
We are efficient across our global operations and we've launched market-leading products acquired new services capabilities and expanded our sales channels.
We're winning big deals that fuel our long-term annuity and we resumed our stock buyback program with plans to do more in Q4.
We expect this solid performance will continue positioning us well to deliver on our full year commitments.
With that let me turn it over to Luca.
I'll be back to wrap up and open the call to your questions.
Luca? Thank you Ursula and good morning everyone.
We delivered strong EPS in Q3 thanks to improving revenue growth expense management and equity income.
Also cash came in as planned and we were able to take an aggressive first step in deploying cash towards share repurchase.
Starting with our top line revenue growth was 3% at actual currency with a 2-point benefit from currency and increased 2 points sequentially at constant currency.
Services continue to drive our growth and were up 6% while Technology improved and was up 1%.
Operating margin in the quarter was 9.6% up 0.4 of a point year-over-year.
Gross margin however was affected by the shift of business towards Services and the ramp of new contracts.
We expect this dynamic to continue as Services growth accelerates and new contracts start up.
We are offsetting the gross margin impact with disciplined expense management.
Both R&amp;D and SG&amp;A ratios improved significantly due to restructuring and synergies.
Below the line equity income in the quarter was $43 million which reflects continued strong results for Fuji Xerox in Asia-Pacific and benefits from restructuring actions.
Our adjusted tax rate was slightly lower than usual due to a higher foreign tax credit benefit and offset the negative impact of currency dynamics during the quarter.
As a result adjusted EPS was $0.26 and grew 18% year-over-year.
The only adjustment to reported EPS was the amortization of intangibles and GAAP EPS was up 29% year-over-year.
Let us move to the Technology segments on Slide 8.
We continue to show profit growth in the Technology segment in spite of a relatively soft and volatile economic environment.
Technology revenue at $2.5 billion was up 1% at actual currency and down 1% at constant currency.
It represented a 3-point improvement over Q2.
Segment margin of 10.3% was up 0.3 of a point year-over-year reflecting restructuring and synergy savings.
At the product segment level entry install performance was affected by a combination of continued higher backlog and timing of product introductions.
Product launches during Q4 should drive improvement in this segment which represents 22% of our Technology revenue.
Mid-range color was the segment most impacted by the Japan shortages and we saw good growth as the supply chain began to recover.
Backlogs are healthy entering Q4 and we expect to continue our positive market performance.
Mid-range now accounts for 58% of our Technology revenue.
In high-end iGen4 and the 800/1000 Color Press continued to show good growth and we began to see some improvement in the entry production color space where we had indicated that we had a product gap.
Additionally we have announced 2 very promising new products that we'll be launching towards the end of the year: the Xerox 770 which will further strengthen our entry production portfolio and the CiPress Color Continuous Feed which brings our solid ink technology into the continuous feed segment providing very competitive running costs and ability to print on any paper stock.
Moving on to Services on Slide 9.
We continue to deliver good growth in Services despite the economic environment which is a reflection of the breadth and diversity of our Services portfolio.
Services revenue was up 6% with BPO up 6% and Document Outsourcing up 12%.
ITO revenue improved and was flat in the quarter.
BPO's 6% growth was driven by recent acquisitions as well as human resources health care payer customer care and transportation.
This growth more than offset declines in government services and the timing of contract runoffs and ramps.
BPO signings were $2.3 billion which is up over 10% year-over-year and reflects wins across all lines of business including a significant deal to take over the U.S.
check processing services of Symcor which will contribute approximately $100 million a year in revenues.
BPO's pipeline remains strong and revenue growth will continue as we start up significant contracts such as California Medicaid during Q4.
ITO revenue was flat in the quarter with contract ramp from recent strong signings offsetting contract losses from earlier in the year.
We expect ITO growth to remain constrained as new business signings will be offset by the impact of the contract runoffs.
Document Outsourcing continues to show strong growth with revenue up 12% and this reflects both the impact of new signings and benefits from our partner print services offerings which began to be reported in Document Outsourcing this year and are accelerating.
Signings of $1 billion were once again strong with both renewals and new business up double-digits.
Maybe the strongest metric for the quarter was total signings which grew over 30% year-over-year.
The trailing 12-month signings calculation declined 9% as it includes the 10-year $1.6 billion California Medicaid deal we signed in Q1 2010 and the Texas Medicaid renewal that occurred in Q2 of 2010 for close to $1 billion.
Also the total contract value of new business signings was up over 70% year-over-year and annual revenues expected from new business signings were the highest ever for the company.
Even after a strong signings quarter the pipeline remains healthy and is up 5% including synergies.
Segment margin of 11.9% was up 7/10 of a point year-over-year thanks to good expense management and the benefits from restructuring offsetting impacts from contract start-up costs.
Moving on to our key metrics slide.
In this quarter we are including all of our key metrics reporting on one single slide.
I think it provides a good snapshot of our business drivers.
I just reviewed signings and installed performance on the previous slide but I would like to take a moment to touch on color machine in field and page metrics.
Keep in mind that these metrics include the Technology segment plus Document Outsourcing.
Total color was up 9% or 6% at constant currency.
Digital MIF machines in field continued to grow and was up 3% in total; 14% for color-capable devices.
Finally digital pages showed an improvement in the quarter and were down 3% year-to-date with pages from color devices up 9% year-to-date.
Moving on to the balance sheet on Page 11.
Our Q3 ending debt balance decreased $100 million from Q2 to $9.2 billion and included the repayment of $750 million in term debt an increase of $650 million in our commercial paper program.
We continue to target a year end debt balance of $8.6 billion which is a $650 million reduction from our 2010 year end interest-bearing liabilities of $9.3 billion and would put us very close to our steady-state leverage.
The vast majority of our debt as you know is in support of our financing business.
Of the $9.2 billion debt balance $6 billion can be associated with the financing of Xerox equipment for our customers.
The finance debt is calculated assuming a 7:1 leverage of our finance assets of $6.9 billion.
These finance assets represent committed revenue streams from our customers.
Our strong capital structure and cash generation has enabled us to resume our share repurchase program.
During the quarter we spent $309 million and repurchased 38 million shares.
We have continued that activity into Q4.
And as of October 24 we have repurchased additional $140 million or 18 million shares for a total of $450 million or 56 million shares since the start of the program.
We have also made a portion of our Q3 domestic pension funding stock amounting to approximately 60 million shares.
This decision gave us further flexibility in managing our cash flow during the quarter to meet all our cash priorities including being present consistently in the market to repurchase shares during a time of extreme volatility.
We continue to plan to repurchase 700 million shares in 2011 and anticipate a Q4 average fully diluted share count of approximately 1 425 000 000 shares and at year end fully diluted share count of approximately 1 405 000 000 shares.
Slide 12 provides further detail on our cash performance.
Cash from operations of $366 million was equal to Q3 of 2010 and positions us to deliver our cash flow guidance of $2 billion to $2.3 billion.
Performance was driven by earnings of $329 million consistent with normal seasonality working capital during the quarter was a use of cash of $168 million.
Pension contributions of $225 million were $83 million higher year-on-year due to anticipated catch-up payments.
CapEx was $121 million in Q3 $367 million year-to-date and is on track for approximately $500 million for the year.
During the quarter we also invested $51 million on tuck-in acquisitions both in Services and Technology $69 million on dividends and reduced debt by over $100 million.
In summary during Q3 we continued to execute on our strategy.
Revenue growth of 3% was an improvement over the first half of the year.
Services signings were very strong up over 30% year-over-year.
Operating margin improved.
Adjusted earnings grew 18%.
Cash flow is on track and we began the share repurchase program at a strong pace.
With that back to you Ursula.
Well thanks Luca.
Let me quickly wrap up so that we can get to your questions.
We've been successful in leveraging our brand our global scale and innovation to win multi-million dollar deals for Xerox technology and for our diverse outsourcing services.
We run our operation with a disciplined approach to cost management.
This becomes increasingly more important as we are ramping new services contracts contracts that require upfront investments in time and resources and therefore impacts our gross margins.
It's a shift in how we manage our business model.
We're driving efficiencies across the enterprise that result in improved operating margins all while possibly growing our business and generating cash.
Like any business we'll always have headwinds that need to be offset and tailwinds that give us added benefits.
But when it nets out we're delivering steady top line growth solid bottom line results and delivering shareholder value through dividends and share repurchase.
It's this across-the-board progress that I'm confident will continue.
For the fourth quarter we expect to deliver adjusted earnings of $0.32 to $0.35 per share.
This will bring our full year adjusted EPS of $108 (sic) [$1.08] to $111 (sic) [$1.11] a year-over-year increase of 15% to 18%.
Thank you again for joining us today and now let's open it up to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
My first question is with regard to geographic trends.
Canon noted pressure in Europe.
Lexmark kind of talked about pressure all over.
Can you talk just a little bit about what you're hearing from your customers both in terms of demand for products on Technology and Services? And then also printing volumes just in general what are you hearing? Yes.
So from a demand perspective geographically we still see -- we continue to see the strongest demand in our developing markets' economies Russia the Eurasian regions some of the Latin and Central American countries are the strongest.
I think the next grouping would be -- the next group of countries or the next country would be the United States.
It's a little bit stronger than Europe it's not as strong as DMO.
And we haven't seen -- we're seeing a overhang in the U.S.
that is dampening go-forward expectations from our clients particularly from the government.
But so far this year we've been able to manage very well in that environment.
And then in Europe I think it's a little bit weaker than the U.S.
So it's like a waterfall DMO developing markets the strongest United States kind of wallowing around in the middle and Europe is definitely seeing a fall over it.
On a go-forward basis I think it's important for me to talk about that as well.
On a go-forward basis we do see continued headwind from a macro environment in the U.S.
and in Europe.
There's no doubt about it.
The conversations are all muted with our customers across-the-board and so we don't expect that this economic environment will improve in the fourth quarter very much.
As far as page trends go we see as Luca discussed continued growth in color and continued softness particularly in the high-end black-and-white printing segment.
Some of the growth that we saw in the third quarter was driven by the fact that we had a pretty large backlog from the second quarter.
And we'll see a little bit of that continue into the fourth quarter.
But by the end of this quarter we expect all of the backlog to be totally cleared up and we'll be back to normal which I think is about flat on Technology revenues for the fourth quarter.
Did I answer all your questions Shannon? Well not all of them yet but yes I think you answered that one.
Luca can you talk a little bit about the biggest drivers of your confidence in cash flow during fourth quarter? Because clearly it's a large -- extremely large cash flow quarter.
So just if you can walk through some of the puts and takes we should keep in mind.
Q4 seasonally is our strongest quarter.
We intend to deliver stronger earnings than the rest of the year.
When -- Shannon when you look back at our historical performance during Q4 you see for example that in Q4 of 2010 we delivered the same level of cash flow operating cash flow that would be required to get to our range so we've done that in the past.
Clearly working capital needs to be a positive during Q4.
It's been a positive historically.
And so we are -- we know that it is the biggest quarter and we've got the plans in place to get there.
And of course we're also trying to position the company for growth which is very important and has required some investments during the course of the year.
We recognize that.
Okay.
And then I guess my final question is we've heard from a few companies about potential impact from the Thailand flooding.
So can you talk a little bit about what you -- how you're thinking about that and if there's any impact we should worry about.
Yes first of all I mean our hearts go out to the people in Thailand and anything that we can do to help we will do as a company particularly if we have suppliers or any clients or customers out there we will help them.
This couldn't be a worse year for natural disasters.
I think we've had it all.
However we expect that we will have -- no no impact from the natural disaster in Thailand from a direct-to-Xerox supply perspective.
We've already checked with our supply chain and we've gotten very positive feedback back.
It turns out that we fortunately don't source hard drive hard disk drives from that region and that this happens to be something that fell on a positive side for us this time not on the negative side.
We do expect though and it's possible that there will be some impact from equity income from Japan.
We don't know that for sure.
We still have to wait until this clears up a little bit and we'll see that as it goes forward.
But for Xerox Corporation supply supply to our customers et cetera we expect no impact at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes for Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask about the yen.
It keeps strengthening on you.
And have you been able to do any renegotiating with Fuji Xerox to maybe improve the baseline? I know you have a 50-50 sharing agreement.
Could you talk about maybe how you hedge it and then how that factors into gross margin guidance not only for the fourth quarter but maybe also next year? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes.
So clearly Ben strengthening yen is a headwind for us.
I would say at today's rate for the full year we would be looking at about 0.2 of a point in terms of the impact on margins for the company.
So it's not particularly material.
As you know we...
Research Division</strong> But that's for next year? That year-over-year...
No no this is for 2011.
This is the year-on-year impact for 2011 versus 2010.
We do hedge out 12 months and therefore any impact from currency movements gets delayed a bit.
And so obviously in general a negative yen is -- strong yen is not a positive for us as you will know.
We manage it actively through the hedging program that we of course as you said we've got a currency sharing agreement with our partner Fuji Xerox.
And as we develop partner programs in general of course we try to set targets taking into account a yen that is stronger than it was in the past and so we need to continue all our efforts in terms of being very competitive on cost and that's -- those are the ways we manage together with Fuji Xerox.
So far I would say that when you look at our Technology margins for the year I think it's pretty commendable that they've held up the way they have in spite of the continuing appreciation of the yen.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any idea what's the hit in the fourth quarter next year? Similar? Q4 of 2012? Research Division</strong> 2011.
Yes.
Q4 is going to be again about 0.2 of a point.
It's low double-digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then earlier today Canon lowered guidance for their laser printer shipments due to an HP inventory adjustment.
Obviously you're aware of HP in the news and whatnot.
Are you -- see it was laser printer-related but given they're are a big player in MPS there's a lot of overlap with you guys.
Canon's copier numbers were actually fine.
So I was just wondering if you're seeing any change in the competitive environment that's HP-related and that's helping your business or impacting your business and trying to put together what they said this morning.
Yes.
What we're seeing HP -- and then I'll just broaden it to other competitors as well.
As you know HP the company is having lots of disruption.
But what we're seeing from HP our segment is a continued strong competitor.
I mean they are -- we haven't seen a lot of hiccups or backpedaling in the market from HP.
They continue to be a strong competitor.
Where we succeeded and HP has may not be succeeding as much is in 2 segments: One is our MPS or our Managed Print Services offering attacks HP's strengths straight on.
And more and more customers as you can see from our Document Outsourcing strength this year 12% year-over-year this quarter 12% growth in MPS of print services our Managed Print Services offerings are taking off and it actually works to consolidate where HP's strength is which is in single function printers.
The other place that we're very strong and continue to be strong is in the very high-end production printing segment.
iGen4 and our color press technology continues to do well there.
So while we haven't seen a marked decline in HP's performance we've seen a marked increase and improvement in our performance.
And that's where I think net-net we're winning the war or winning the battle.
In addition to that as we go to clients when we speak to them we speak to them about the entire offer: about BPO ITO Document Outsourcing and our technology base.
And that conversation as signaled by our signings strength and our backlog strength is one that is absolutely on fire.
It's a conversation that customers want to hear.
So when we start talking to them about BPO and ITO what we end up with if we don't get BPO and ITO we actually get Document Outsourcing or Technology or all 3.
So I think that the combination of the value proposition that we have and our strength in the areas that happen to be places that HP is not very strong maybe having an effect on them.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Last thing to sneak in is on the cash question I was surprised Luca you didn't mention that a bunch of big contracts are moving from investment to revenue mode like the California Medicaid as cash drivers for the fourth quarter is.
Is that a big driver or is it not that material? Well it is significant.
I said Ben that we are positioning the company for growth and that's what happens right? You're starting up big contracts and of course they have some upfront cash requirement.
But they're included in our numbers right? We need to manage them.
They've been a year-on-year negative for the first 3 quarters of the year but they are included in our numbers.
And California Medicaid fortunately we can say pretty firmly is now starting to revenue.
We are actually operating it took a while but we're operating California Medicaid as a real contract now.
We generate revenue from it et cetera et cetera.
So fourth quarter -- tail left 2 months of the fourth quarter and all of 2012 we'll see the benefit of revenue and then the flow-off of improved earnings from California Medicaid.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Gardner with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Ursula in your prepared comments you made a reference to the continued challenges on the government side of the Services business.
And given that that continues to be an area of a lot of questions I was hoping you could give some detail on government BPO signings year-to-date and what the pipeline looks like there and just generally what you're seeing in terms of those particular customers' appetite or willingness to go forward with contracts.
Yes.
So let me -- I start this always when I get a question about the government with a statement that one of the things that I realize when I -- when we bought ACS when we got them into our company was how important it was is and was for ACS to have strength in the government.
A large amount of the revenue in BPO and ITO in the world is generated from government.
And so our strength there is a positive that I want never to be kind of overshadowed by some of the short-term issues.
So overall we're really pleased with our position in the government.
What we are seeing though is we are seeing very similar to what we saw in the third -- in the second quarter with a little bit more emphasis on it.
It takes longer time to get a contract signed and after it's -- negotiated and then after it's negotiated actually signed.
And that longer time is not because of lack of desire for the services particularly in the United States some of the localities are still trying to figure out what their budgets are going to be and what authorities they have to make big go-forward commitments.
Once they figure that out then they sign.
One of those that's currently active for us is New York State Medicaid for example.
Its one that's in competition.
And everybody has done their bidding and we're just waiting for the State of New York to decide what to do once they figure out what they can do and what they have to do.
So what we're seeing is we're seeing longer times and then we're also seeing lower volumes with some of the services we provide.
The most notable there is in unemployment and this comes and it goes so we have a baseline unemployed number of people.
And depends on what the government does to either extend or not extend that unemployment the volumes go up or go down.
So those are the places.
We also have some contracts that naturally end that we did the service for them and now it's over.
They are -- they were very high-return contracts for us very profitable contracts.
And as they roll off we have not only the revenue impact we have the profitability impact.
And you couple that with some really amazing start-ups with some very big contracts California Medicaid is one but there are others as well that are starting up that cause it to be overall the government segment to be lower performance this quarter than a year ago and lower performance this quarter than last quarter than what we would expect.
But on a go-forward basis government is a strong segment for us to be in.
And what we have to do is to continue to manage winning big contracts and manage the roll-off of contracts that naturally end and obviously manage our losses so we don't lose any that don't naturally end.
I mean it's a long answer to a question but I hope it -- volumes are lower contract signing is longer and a little bit more complicated and that's it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could ask a follow-up Ursula.
Of course you can.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned worse performance than one year ago in the government BPO business.
Is that a revenue statement or a contract signing statement or a pipeline statement or are all of the above? It's a revenue statement.
It's not a contract signing statement but it's a revenue statement for sure and it's down about 1% year-over-year.
Actually bookings in government in Q3 were significantly higher.
Yes.
So signings a good revenue for roll-offs.
And for others roll-offs cancellations are down particularly in Georgia and Texas is where we had 2 big hits.
And the fourth quarter based on California Medicaid and other just natural flow-through of smaller contracts will be higher.
Revenue will be higher will be better for government sector in the fourth quarter and we can just see that before this revenue in California is going to help that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final quick one.
In terms of volume sensitivity are we talking about sort of low single-digit numbers here in terms of the impact on revenue growth rates based on things like changing unemployment claims? I would suspect.
Yes absolutely.
That low -- yes.
So it's a single-digit impact on us low single-digit impact for us but it’s from a revenue perspective yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of questions if I could.
I guess the first is going back to hardware.
Ursula I just want to make sure that I understand what the message is.
You guys had pretty solid hardware results this quarter fueled somewhat by backlog but your guidance for the December quarter is solid as well and it sounds like you're saying you're through the backlog.
You're also saying that the macro environment is having some impact to demand.
So is the message that despite a bit softer macro environment you're still delivering to what your hardware expectations were for the second half of the year? And then I have a follow-up next.
Yes the answer is yes.
So if you look year-to-date take out all the ups and the downs we're about flat revenue on a year-over-year basis through quarter 3.
And that's based on the macro environment and based on just the trends in this business.
I think we are on track to be where I would expect to be.
Quarter 4 we expect to be essentially flat total revenue for the Technology segment.
And one of the things that Luca pointed out when he reported is if you look at Technology segment in 2 different buckets one is just the equipment hardware that we report in Technology and the other one is the total hardware that we report -- that we sell some of which is wrapped around or wrapped -- Service is wrapped around it.
And where we see the big pickup in quarter 4 is in our Document Outsourcing business and the technology associated with that which comes into our P&amp;L a little bit differently.
As you know it doesn't come in as equipment sale revenue.
It comes in as annuity stream.
Total-total if you look at the activity numbers that we show we see strength in mid-range color we see strength in high-end color and we see strength in the total revenue -- reasonable performance in the total revenue for technology that we sell.
So net-net yes things are looking not terribly.
They're not looking terrible.
They're actually looking pretty good on a competitive basis.
We're gaining share across-the-board on a competitive basis as well.
Equipment revenue share we're #1 on just about everywhere we compete.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is it really the MPS where you think you're driving share gains? Yes there's MPS for sure mid-range and very high-end.
So those 3 segments are the places that -- very high-end which has nothing to do with MPS it has to do with strength of portfolio iGen color press.
And then later on this year and early -- and into 2012 we will have the CiPress device fully rolled out.
And then in the mid-range some of it is cleaning up backlog but we just have a very strong portfolio in the mid-range and color.
So we can -- those places and then wrapping around in our lower-end product portfolio both in single function printers and in low-end MFPs wrapping that around with our Services helps us there as well.
So this one case that the strategy actually is working as we wanted it to work.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
And I guess just a follow-up on Services.
The revenue trends then the pretty solid last couple of quarters and the bookings trends certainly saw nice improvement this quarter.
The mix has been a little softer last quarter and this quarter and I guess you walked through some of the dynamics in the government business.
Can you talk about some of the other mix dynamics that have been a little softer in the other parts of the businesses? And I guess I'm just wondering what the gross margin implications could be over the next few quarters? And how long it could take to work through some of those mix dynamics? So on the mix of services you know that a very very diversified portfolio many different lines of business that have different characteristics in terms of growth rates and in terms of profitability.
Some of them take customer care for example is a business that is doing extremely well for us.
It was affected a bit by volumes during the third quarter it very much depends on the level of economic activity for our customers than translating to volumes in our call centers so there was some of that.
But I would say the primary impact on our gross margin dynamics right now comes from government both in services and health care.
Services Ursula talked about in Health Care we're making very significant investments that once we complete those investments ramp up those contracts example is California but we've got many other cases we're going to have a platform for these type of contracts that is going to be really unmatched in the industry and it's going to put us at a very very strong competitive position.
So I think overall Ananda we continue to see some level of gross margin pressure in Services from -- purely from the mix and from the fact that we're making investments for growth.
And so they will continue into -- in the near-term.
But we think that when we look at the long-term and where we want to take the company the fact that we want to accelerate our revenue growth rates I think we're making the right decisions.
And with that if I could add a point.
The margin mix therefore that we see on a go-forward basis is on the -- towards the lower end of the range definitely for quarter 4 and we'll update in January our quarter -- our 2012 numbers.
But in -- but what we can see based on start-ups based on volumes et cetera that will be in a gross margin range that's at the lower end of our range tending towards where we are right now.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> 30% 30% to 35% range? Yes 32-ish percent range 32% to 35% range yes.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then one last one on Service if I could.
Document Outsourcing obviously is giving minimum last few quarters.
It seems like at least anecdotally you guys are starting to get a little bit more excited about that.
And you mentioned I think in your prepared remarks that you're seeing some pretty good increase in momentum there.
Can you give us some sense of how big of a percent of revenue that can ultimately become? I think it's around 16% today.
Can it become a 20% of revenue sort of segment over time or is that shooting too high? So right now it's I think you've done the math right 16% total company 33% for our Services business.
We think that it's a segment within Services that can grow above average.
And so you would expect it to trend up a bit in terms of -- it's relatively importance for the company.
And Ananda one last point if I can.
I have a lot of last points today.
One of the things about Document Outsourcing the benefit that we're seeing from the services strategy that we have the overall services strategy that we have is that Document Outsourcing while it's doing very well is doing very well because it's a part of a set of offers that actually excites customers more.
So we're getting a drag-along of that Document Outsourcing with the fact that we have BPO and ITO as well.
And by the way that's something that we talked about.
And I think this quarter and a little bit of last quarter was the first times that we started to see that improvement that synergy of where Document Outsourcing BPO and ITO will win will engage the client and will win 1 of the 3 of these lines to start with and then we'll expand we'll penetrate with one of those lines and then we'll expand.
Document Outsourcing has benefited in the last quarters from that strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with BMO Capital Markets.
I had a couple also.
Ursula I wanted to start with you and go back to the strategy question.
In Technology the growth on a constant currency basis was about negative 1% with some help on backlog burn so maybe it was negative 2% but it was nevertheless a negative number.
Your Services business is doing nicely it grew about 5%.
At the same time in some parts of Services like ITO you're very subscale and in geographic basis you’re subscale in other areas such as Europe.
My question is why deploy anything but the minimum amount necessary for the Technology side of the business and why not deploy the incremental capital towards the Services business? And in the past comments you've talked about -- it sounds like you want to try to do everything but I'm not sure why you're devoting incremental capital to Technology business? And then I have a follow-up.
I think that we are devoting the appropriate capital to the Technology business.
We have places in the Technology business that we are clearly privileged and that drives incremental profitability and cash.
That is focused around color and around Managed Print Services tightly linked to our Technology business.
So we're not -- and as I think I've said in many calls before we are deploying on a percentage basis and shifting significantly our investments towards Services towards Document Outsourcing and towards BPO.
So we are -- the reason why we'd invest any money is because there is money to be made in that segment of the business and that's where we are.
Technology is a competitive space.
It's a place where we generate a lot of cash and so we need to continue to be competitive so there is a certain amount of capital that we allocate to Technology.
But when we look at all the activities that we have acquisitions we favor Services over Technology.
CapEx most of our CapEx is actually linked to services contracts.
Working capital primarily it's -- we're deploying working capital to the Services contracts.
So when you look at all the different lines -- and now we're actually starting to deploy R&amp;D towards services.
We've got an R&amp;D center in Europe that is totally dedicated to our Services business.
So more and more we're shifting every aspect of the company towards the opportunity where growth is.
And you mentioned Europe.
Europe is a place where of course we will deploy capital because we want to grow Services in Europe.
It is a huge opportunity for the company.
So I think overall I think we agree with you and I think we are following up with our actions.
I guess also I wanted to include ITO.
I mean it seems like as we look at the BPO market increasingly technology is a critical element of BPO.
So would your investments include trying to stimulate more growth in ITO which just had a couple of quarters of flat growth? Yes definitely definitely.
And ITO is important for us as a stand-alone line of business and also because it provides us with capabilities that support our BPO and Document Outsourcing businesses right? So we definitely want to make the right investments there.
Okay.
Let me just ask my follow-up point or question sorry.
On the last -- the June quarter conference call or I guess it was July quarter conference call the target for cash flow from operations was $2.0 billion to $2.3 billion.
I think Ursula said on the prepared remarks was greater than $2 billion.
I just wanted to confirm what are the cash flow targets for the year? I think that Luca said very clearly $2 billion to $2.3 billion.
Okay so it is the same cash flow targets? It's the same thing yes.
Let me [indiscernible] and make sure that they all match.
No we didn't intend to say anything differently there.
It's $2 billion to $2.3 billion.
Your next question comes from the line of Deepak Sitaraman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Ursula can you share with us some color on what renewal rates were in the Services business during the quarter? And how that compares to what you saw a year ago? And maybe if you could just break it down for us by service type that would be very helpful as well.
And then I have a follow-up.
So renewal rates were at 85%.
They're back to our normal working rate.
We had a low renewal rate last quarter primarily driven by ITO drop in ITO renewals we're back to normal.
We’ve worked to make sure that back to normal wasn't an accident that we got back to normal.
And so we will continue to be my prediction based on how we're going to manage it to be that 85-plus percent renewal rate next quarter and going into the future.
What was the second part of your question I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you can break it down by service type.
But I think your comment on ITO can answer that as well.
Yes.
ITO has recovered back to a good rate.
It's generally lower than BPO and Document Outsourcing but it's really high.
It's in the higher 70% range.
So we're back to normal.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Luca a follow-up for you.
I don't see it on the slides but how should we think about your comfort level just with the outlook for 6% to 8% revenue growth and $2.6 billion to $2.9 billion of cash flow from operations for next year? So Deepak we will provide guidance -- update guidance for 2012 during Q4 earnings.
When you think about revenue clearly we've got some revenue tailwinds that should improve our growth in 2012.
We talked about California a lot.
But the fact that our signings are strong that will help right? We also need to monitor them the macro environment because that has its bumps recently.
Cash again we will have strong cash next year because we expect earnings to be higher.
At the same time clearly pensions will become an issue for us and for any company that has got legacy plans.
You know the interest rate environment drives lower discount rates that is obviously a negative for companies that have legacy-defined benefit plans.
I don't want to get too much into pensions but pensions will be a headwind versus where what we were thinking previously.
So we're putting together our plans.
We will provide you with updated guidance in January for 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You've all been pretty clear on how we should think about volumes and the overall pace of business going into the fourth quarter in light of the macro uncertainty around right now.
But can you comment on how we should think about competitive pricing particularly within the Technology business for the fourth quarter and potentially into 2012? There are obviously some signs of incremental price aggression in certain areas of the imaging market and I'm wondering if you're seeing any of this flow into your core business? Is there -- or potentially flow into your core businesses if price conditions remain volatile.
We haven't seen a significant change in pricing trends from the previous quarters.
It's 5% to 10% on our Technology business and we expect that that will be the same in the fourth quarter.
By the way all large contracts are competed for outside of that range that I just talked about but the balance is that 5% to 10%.
And on our Services business we see -- the good news about our Services business any of the 3 lines is that we sign upfront and we sign for the life of the contract pricing with predefined escalators or de-escalators in those contracts.
Occasionally we get customers who are stressed who want price concessions and we negotiate with those contracts with those customers openly and very willingly and we generally give a price concession with something in return.
So we're comfortable with that as well.
So no significant changes to what we're seeing.
I think everyone is dealing with the same environment that we are.
So while it may seem logical that you would run down on price to get business everybody's dealing with cost challenges that they have to manage and so they're staying fairly logical in their pricing which is good.
And we are as well obviously.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then I guess a final question.
Just sort of a basic question I'm thinking about these new contracts in Services business.
I know you've discussed it before but how should we think about the life cycle of some of these new contracts coming on? Because clearly at some point I would imagine that you're going to have this tilt towards these new contracts all shifting into profitability mode.
I mean how should we think about that time line? Should we assume that this is really a fairly near-term phenomenon and we start to see potential margin improvements and revenue uplift as well as we get deeper into 2012? Or is this something that's really just going to be a sustained phenomenon because you're pushing for growth I'd imagine over the longer term? Yes the typical -- in fact the typical -- the profile -- profitability profile of these contracts is fairly similar right? You've got the upfront investments and then margin tends to improve towards the end of the contract.
So in an environment where you're actually trying to promote some growth you will see some kind of sustained margin pressure because the amount of new contracts that you sign is higher than your base right so you continue to require some level of gross margin dilution and some level of working capital investment.
So I would say for the near term for sure I think we should be looking for the company for a gross margin range of 32% to 34% because of these dynamics in the Services business.
But again it is in the context of trying to accelerate our revenue growth rates from the historic numbers to something that is healthier.
And it's in the environment of expanding operating margins as well.
So we leverage our SG&amp;A and our R&amp;D investments across a big event base and actually do some shifting to make sure that we can fuel that growth while continuing to expand operating margins.
And the big big big contracts are the ones that we're talking about here I mean it's California Medicaid it's some of the pharmaceutical contracts that we are signing and the telecom contracts that are really large and long-standing.
The good news about them is that they're long-standing and the second piece of good news is that they're really large.
And so these are really good business deals for us.
We investigate them very clearly to make sure that we can afford them way before we sign them that we can operate them before we sign them et cetera et cetera.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if I could.
One Ursula can you weigh in a little more how we should think about the Technology part of the business in terms of what the installs this past quarter imply for annuity growth next year? It does seem like it was kind of mixed in terms of the year-over-year install activity.
Yes I think that the install activity will continue to stabilize and then strengthen our annuity revenue on a go-forward basis.
This is install in both the Technology segment of the business and Services segment of the business.
We're installing higher-end devices mid-range color and production color devices really well so that will help.
We had some weakness in this quarter in the entry segment just generally the entry segment is generally lower everything: lower prices lower post-sale revenue.
We like them if we can get them but we have lower activity this quarter.
But overall our install activity will drive more pages stabilizing pages in color for sure drives an average price of page up.
It was up this quarter it was up last quarter on a total company.
So the install activity bodes well for the future very well.
Research Division</strong> And then Luca I just want to get a sense here in terms of -- kind of build on some of the previous questions around cash flow.
When do we get a sense that all of the new signings on the Services side over the past 12 months or so when do we get a sense in terms of when the cash flow will exceed the initial cash outlays? I mean how many more quarter does Xerox has to make these cash outlays to really build out the infrastructure before you start generating positive cash return? I think first of all we will continue to sign new contracts so we're going to continue to have that issue that every time we want to start up a new significant contract that requires some infrastructure investments we will have that.
I think in general what we're seeing is that some of these things drive some working capital requirements that were maybe higher than what we were anticipating.
I would say that over time these -- as we put some of these contracts into full mode take California they will become a positive versus the negative that they've been this year.
But it very much will depend on future signings and how -- what the profile of those signings is going to be.
Over the years I think it's important to think about working capital as being fairly neutral as opposed to having had a couple of years in the past where working capital was a significant source of cash.
And this is normal for a company that wants to grow a bit faster than we were growing in the past.
And so that probably that's the way you need to think about it maybe working capital as a wash and no longer a source of funds.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I had a clarification and a follow-up.
First did you lower your near-term expectations for gross margins by about one percentage point? And if so does that apply to next year as well? So we are saying that in the near term we think it's going to be more like 32% to 34%.
We had out a range of 33% to 35%.
So within that range it's clearly a reduction again driven very much by the fact that Services are growing and therefore there is a dilution of gross margin that comes from that and some of these new contracts as we said before.
Again getting into 2012 guidance we will give you a full update in January.
Research Division</strong> So my question relates just to reconciling everything we've heard so far in the call and into that next year's outlook.
Constant currency revenue growth growth is tracking 1% you expect that to accelerate.
However guidance implies something significantly faster.
Meanwhile you have this ongoing mix shift on the gross profit line.
I guess my bottom line question is do you believe you need to restructure and cut costs in order to meet 2012 expectations? And if so are you willing to do that? So the answer -- let me start and then Luca can add.
We're being very careful to continually say one answer to a question that's been asked a lot of times and that's what is our guidance for 2012? We've been very careful to say that we were going to update our guidance in the January in the fourth quarter of this year the January report of that.
The reason why is because we actually see tailwinds and headwinds and we want to get a better sense of how the fourth quarter will come out and we'll have then been a better read of 2012 obviously.
There are certain things that we know.
One is that we are growing our Services business broader better faster I don't know how to put it than we thought we would.
We are winning contracts larger contracts.
Those contracts that are good contracts.
Those contracts require that we invest to start-up.
The investment is in CapEx as Luca talked about.
And with more Services contracts with more mix towards services our gross margin will come down or is lower.
So we see our gross margin 32% to 34% for the fourth quarter.
I would suspect that we'll see it that way for 2012 as well but we'll update you on that when we report the fourth quarter in January.
We'll be able to give you a better a more complete picture.
The rest of the lines we haven't really opined about at all for 2012.
But to your question on cost Chris absolutely.
I mean we're working on costs every day of the year.
We work on cost on the product cost side.
We work on cost on the fixed cost side of the business.
Restructuring is a normal course of business.
I mean we're always looking for efficiencies and we're going to take the actions that are needed if we see that we can run our operations more efficiently than we do today absolutely we will do it.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for all of your time and for your interest and have a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or re-broadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We'll get started on Slide 3.
We began 2011 with a clear articulation of our priorities.
You see them listed here.
While the statements themselves seem relatively simple the complexity was in the implementations especially during a year of unexpected external challenges.
Here's a report card on how well we did.
First accelerating our Services business growing it faster by diversifying our offerings and expanding globally.
More of our total revenue now comes from Services than Technology.
In 2011 revenue from Services grew 6% which reflects an impressive 8% growth in Business Process Outsourcing and 9% growth in Document Outsourcing.
Our IT Outsourcing business declined 4% during the year but we're encouraged by our recent uplift in ITO signings.
In total our integrated sales activity resulted in a stronger pipeline and a 14% increase in new business signings.
Second maintaining our leadership in document technology.
We not only continue to hold our #1 equipment revenue share position but we also grew share in 2011.
We did this by offering a more extensive and affordable portfolio of color products and by expanding our distribution to serve more small and midsized businesses around the world.
Third we are very good at managing our business with a disciplined focus on operational excellence.
This gives us the financial flexibility to help offset pressures on the business whether it's economic uncertainty or necessary investments that drive growth.
Either way our focus is on delivering strong bottom line results.
And by executing well on the first 3 priorities we delivered on the fourth expanding earnings and returning cash to shareholders.
Full-year 2011 adjusted earnings per share grew 15%.
We generated $2 billion in operating cash and bought back $700 million in Xerox shares during the year.
That’s a buyback of 88 million shares or 71 million net of the pension contribution which is more than we initially expected.
So during the year where we faced our share of headwinds I'm pleased with our progress and confident in our position to build more value for our business for our clients and for our shareholders in 2012.
I often say that some companies talk about transformation but we're actually doing it.
You're seeing the results of the company's strategic shift in our financial performance.
But to understand how we are achieving these results it's important to understand the breadth of our business.
The Xerox brand is now in places that may seem unexpected but the link between our well-regarded technology and our diverse services is one more common objective which is simplifying for clients the way that work gets done so that they can operate more efficiently and more effectively.
And as you would expect from Xerox innovation remains core to what we do and how we strengthen our competitive advantage.
Turn to Slide 4 for some examples of what I mean.
Radical changes to managing information in healthcare are now being more embraced by healthcare providers and payers.
We continue to advance our offerings and be recognized as a valuable player in the industry through our cloud-based technology our advanced security protocols and deep expertise in the complexities of building and managing digital health systems.
Two examples 2 very good examples: one with our recent acquisition of the Breakaway Group which provides electronic medical record simulation technology and our contract with the State of Iowa to run its health information exchange.
Xerox innovation is also changing the status quo in some of the more basic ways that we live like using public transportation.
Through large-scale contracts with transit authorities we're developing easy ways for commuters to pay with smartphones and debit cards doing away with the inefficient token and ticket systems.
And no matter where you work where you work takes you in the office on the road or at home we help ensure that printing is accessible and affordable.
We do that through continuously extending and refreshing our product portfolio especially in color and by broadening our Managed Services -- Managed Print Services.
Our MPS offerings continue to win the praise of industry analysts.
More important they win new business with clients like British Airways that recently tapped Xerox for a 5-year enterprise print services contract.
In all 3 areas we've developed repeatable scalable and integrated solutions.
This is our approach to real business improving our clients' productivity by simplifying the way that they serve their clients.
Our results in the fourth quarter reflect progress in these and other areas.
So please turn to Slide 5 for a review of Q4 performance.
In the fourth quarter we delivered adjusted EPS of $0.33.
That's up 14% from a year ago.
Our GAAP -- on a GAAP basis earnings were $0.26 per share.
This includes $0.07 related to the amortization of intangibles.
Total fourth quarter revenue of $6 billion were flat.
Revenue from our Services business was up 6%.
However revenue from our Technology business was down 5%.
While our Technology business improved throughout the year in the United States and in developing markets we saw a drop-off during Q4 in Technology sales across Europe.
The strength of our Services business model is particularly evident when we're faced with macro issues.
Our Services provide cost-efficient ways for our clients to run more productive enterprises and our multiyear Services contracts benefit our business for the long term through a healthy base of recurring revenue.
Signings for BPO Document Outsourcing and IT Outsourcing were up 15% in the fourth quarter.
The increase in Services signings continues to put near-term pressure on margins as we make initial investments to implement new contracts.
As a result operating margin of 10% was down 0.4 points.
Gross margin was 32.2 points in line with our range.
And we balance our investments by continuing to improve SAG with selling administrative and general expenses now at 19.3% of revenue.
Q4 cash from operations was approximately $1.3 billion.
And as I mentioned previously we delivered on our commitment to generate $2 billion in full-year operating cash.
We're continuing to use available cash for acquisitions and share repurchase.
In a moment Luca will provide a more detailed -- more detail on cash flow as well as review our balance sheet and reporting segments.
Then we'll both take your questions.
But first let's look -- take a little closer look at our top line results on Slide 6.
Here you see what -- that Services now represents 48% of our total revenue up from 45% a year ago and continuing to grow in proportion to our total revenue.
It's an important metric that reflects investments in building our outsourcing portfolio and expanding our offerings globally.
As I mentioned total revenue of $6 billion was flat in the quarter.
Annuity revenue which is 80% of the total was flat or up 1% in constant currency.
Equipment sale revenue was down 3% or 2% in constant currency largely due to the weakness in Europe.
While operating in this challenging economic environment we've grown our global market share for equipment revenue.
And installs of Xerox equipment grew 8% in the fourth quarter a good indication of future annuity.
During the year we launched 27 products with an emphasis on broadening our color portfolio for both production and office markets.
And we've -- and we expanded our channels of distribution.
As a result our MIF that's machines in the field for our color devices grew 14% in 2011 an important contributor to our annuity stream.
Growth in Services is also a big benefit to our annuity.
We continue to focus on joint sales activities between Xerox and ACS.
In 2011 this resulted in more than 300 revenue synergy deals delivering significant total contract value for the company.
These deals include a multiyear contract with a major consumer goods company to manage their  IT Systems and enterprise print services win with a large financial investment firm and expanding our business with one of Latin America's largest banks to now support their commercial foreign exchange operations.
To further accelerate our joint sales activities we increasingly see the value of going to market as one Xerox demonstrating to our clients that our Services-led Technology-driven strategy offers value to their business through the strength of our offerings the power of our innovation and the expertise of our people.
Therefore we're retiring the ACS brand in many areas of our Services business and will lead with Xerox as a master brand that now represents the world's largest enterprise for business process and document management.
It's more than a logo change.
It reflects the progress that we've made in transforming the company the meaningful growth in front of us and the value we’re building for stakeholders.
With that let me turn it over to Luca and I'll be back to wrap up and open the call to your questions.
Luca? Thank you Ursula and good morning everyone.
As Ursula just explained revenue was flat in the quarter both at actual and constant currency.
Services continue to show good growth up 6%.
And Technology was down 5% affected by the weakness that we saw in Europe.
Operating margin in Q4 was 10% a sequential improvement from Q3 in line with seasonality but down 0.4 year-over-year.
Gross margin of 32.2% was lower year-over-year due to the shift of business towards Services and the ramp of new contracts.
We expect this gross margin dynamic to continue in the near term as Services growth accelerates and new contracts start up.
We partially offset the gross margin impact through disciplined expense management.
Both R&amp;D and SG&amp;A ratios continue to show significant improvement from restructuring and synergies.
Within SG&amp;A bad debts increased year-over-year by $12 million as improvements in North America were more than offset by higher write-offs in southern Europe.
For the full year operating margins grew by 30 basis points.
We deployed several cost and expense reduction initiatives to offset the disruption from the natural disaster in Japan during the first half and ongoing currency headwinds.
Below the line we had improved results from lower interest expense and higher equity income at Fuji Xerox.
Also in the quarter we made 2 one-off entries which are worth mentioning.
We realized a $66 million after-tax pension curtailment gain that is associated with our decision in Q4 to fully freeze after December 2012 any further service and benefit accruals in the Xerox defined benefit pension plans in the U.S.
This impact was partially offset by a restructuring charge of $39 million after-tax we took to improve the efficiency of our operations and help counter the pressures in the macro environment.
As a result adjusted EPS in Q4 was $0.33 and grew 14% year-over-year.
The only adjustment to reported EPS was the amortization of intangibles.
It should be noted this adjustment was higher than in previous quarters because in Q4 we accelerated the amortization of the intangibles related to the ACS trade name following our decision to discontinue the use of the ACS brand going forward.
For the full year adjusted EPS grew 15% and GAAP EPS more than doubled.
Let us now move to the Services segment on Slide 8.
The 6% revenue growth in Services is a reflection of the breadth and diversity of our portfolio.
Within Services BPO growth accelerated it was up 8%.
And Document Outsourcing was also up 8%.
ITO revenue was down 6%.
The 8% growth in BPO came from both commercial and government.
Commercial growth was driven by financial services customer care and recent acquisitions.
Government revenue growth came primarily from the ramping of the California Medicaid contract.
The 8% increase in Document Outsourcing reflects both the impact of strong new signings and benefits from our partner print services offerings which began to be reported in Document Outsourcing this year and are accelerating.
The competitiveness of our product portfolio and our unique document management software and tools continue to clearly differentiate us in the marketplace.
ITO revenue was down 6% in Q4 driven by 2 main factors: past contract losses and lower product resale revenues.
On the positive side during 2011 ITO signings were at $3.4 billion and up by more than 150% year-over-year.
The impact of a few contract losses will continue to have an effect on revenues through midyear at which time the ramp in new signings will deliver revenue growth.
Total signings for the entire Services business increased 15% year-on-year in Q4 and the trailing 12-month signings calculation is now flat even after including the California Medicaid new business and the Texas Medicaid renewal both signed in 2010.
Our pipeline continues to be healthy and is up 5% including synergies.
Segment margin of 10.3% was down 1.7 points year-over-year due to the contract startup costs and lower renewal rates we just discussed.
California Medicaid alone impacted margins by over 0.5 points.
We expect this margin pressure to remain in the near term but to gradually improve as we move through 2012.
Let's now turn to the Technology slide.
Technology revenue was down 5% or 4% at constant currency.
The largest factor in this decline was the slowdown in Europe where equipment revenue was down 15%.
It should also be noted that as planned our Technology results are impacted by the launch of our partner print services which have been very successful and are reported in Document Outsourcing.
In spite of the revenue decline segment margin of 11.7% was flat year-over-year and at the highest level for the year in line with seasonality.
Overall a good result thanks to strong control and expense control.
Looking at our product segments in detail.
Entry install performance improved in the quarter although revenue was impacted by price and mix.
We're building momentum in this segment with the recent launch of a new price-competitive platform providing both mono and color capabilities.
Entry represented about 21% of our Technology revenue.
Mid-range was the strongest performing area in Q4 and for the full year thanks to our strong color portfolio.
This is the product segment that was also most impacted by the disaster in Japan.
As we had expected supply availability has now returned to normal and the backlog while healthy is not artificially high due to the product constraints.
Mid-range accounted for 57% of our Technology revenue.
High-end results were mixed.
With continued strong performance in production color driven by iGen4 and the 800/1000 Color Press we're also improving our performance in entry production color with the recent launch of our Xerox 770 system.
High end represented 22% of our Technology revenue.
Going into 2012 we're very confident in our Technology offerings given our market share gains and recent improvements we have made to our industry-leading portfolio.
Moving on to our key metrics on Slide 10.
Our most relevant operational metrics this quarter were quite positive.
Total Services signing of $4.2 billion were up 15% year-over-year with over $1 billion of signings in each of the 3 lines of business.
For the year we signed over $14 billion flat year-over-year even with the 2 large Medicaid deals in the prior year compare.
New business signings for the year were up 14%.
Looking at the Document-related metrics please keep in mind that these include the Technology segment plus Document Outsourcing.
Total color revenue was up 2% both actual and constant currency.
Digital machines in field continue to grow was up 3% in total 14% for color-capable devices.
Lastly digital pages were stable and down 3% with pages from color devices up 9% both in Q4 and for the full year.
All color segments showed strong install growth and total installs for the company were up 8% in the quarter.
This did not translate into equipment revenue growth even [ph] price erosion and mix impacts but this will feed annuity over time.
Moving on to the cash flow slide.
Cash from operations of almost $1.3 billion was in line with Q4 of 2010 for a full-year total of $2 billion.
Earnings contributed $383 million.
And consistent with normal seasonality working capital during the quarter was a source of $696 million.
For the year working capital was essentially flat.
Pension cash contributions in the quarter were $78 million and $426 million for the year which is about $200 million higher than our 2010 funding.
We expect a similar level of pension contributions in 2012 due to a very significant drop in the discount rate in spite of truly outstanding returns that we achieved in 2011 on our plan assets.
CapEx of $134 million was in line with the annual trend and we had limited M&amp;A activity during the quarter.
Let us turn to the next slide to quickly review the uses of our operating cash flow in 2011.
So we generated $2 billion of cash from operations.
CapEx came in as anticipated at $501 million full year.
And the resulting free cash flow of $1.5 billion was used as follows: we paid down over $600 million in debt and we have now repaid the debt we took on for the ACS acquisition.
We ended the year with $8.6 billion of debt of which $6 billion can be associated with the financing of Xerox equipment for our customers.
The finance debt is calculated assuming a 7:1 leverage of our finance assets of $6.9 billion.
We also had $265 million in dividend payments and our current yield sits at approximately 2%.
Our focus was to deploy our available cash primarily towards the share repurchase program.
As mentioned earlier we repurchased $700 million worth of shares at an average price of $7.97.
We also continue to invest in tuck-in acquisitions spending $212 million full year primarily in Services.
Let me now move to guidance for 2012.
For revenue growth in 2012 we are guiding to 2%-plus at constant currency.
We expect Services to grow mid to high single-digits with growth accelerating throughout the year and Technology to be flat to modestly lower given a macro environment and our strategy to lead with our Managed Print Services offerings.
We expect GAAP EPS in the range of $0.97 to $1.03 and adjusted EPS in the range of $1.12 to $1.18.
The change in guidance from May of last year is driven by a pension expense increase of well over $100 million because of the significant decline in discount rates negative currency dynamics and worsened economic outlook in Europe.
Our earnings estimate would put us in a position to deliver strong cash flow between $2 billion and $2.3 billion.
This is also lower than we were assuming back in May of 2011 due to 3 main factors: revised earnings as I just explained; pension funding in line with 2011.
This is $200 million higher than previously assumed due to the historically low discount rate and restructuring payments of approximately $150 million instead of an earlier assumption of nominal payments.
We took a $61 million restructuring charge in Q4 and anticipate taking a modest amount of additional restructuring in 2012.
This will allow us to improve our operating leverage and offset some of the cost pressure in the environment.
We expect operating cash flow to be negative in Q1 with higher pension contributions adding to the typical working capital seasonality.
On CapEx we're planning for investments of $500 million which will result in free cash flow of between $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion.
Our capital allocation priorities remain unchanged.
In 2012 we expect to repurchase between $900 million and $1.1 billion worth of shares skewed to the second half of the year consistent with our cash generation seasonality.
We are announcing today that our board increased the share repurchase authorization by $500 million so it now stands at over $1.3 billion.
We anticipate spending between $300 million and $400 million on acquisitions with primary focus on expanding our Services offerings.
And dividends are planned to be a use of around $300 million given current payout and number of shares outstanding.
With that I would turn it back to Ursula to wrap up.
Thanks Luca.
Let me quickly wrap up so that we can get to your questions.
2011 presented its share of challenges and our performance in the fourth quarter and for the full year reflects our operational discipline in delivering strong bottom line results while scaling our Services business and maintaining our leadership in Document Technology.
Signings continue to grow for our diverse services offerings.
Installs are up for our industry-leading technology.
Both of these areas contribute to a healthy annuity stream that serves us well for the long term.
In the near term we are planning for continued economic weakness.
So we're being somewhat guarded with our expectations and remain focused on operational efficiency.
For the first quarter our expectations are for adjusted earnings of $0.21 to $0.24 per share including $0.01 to $0.02 of restructuring.
And as Luca noted we expect full-year adjusted EPS of $1.12 to $1.18.
Throughout 2012 our productivity initiatives will be balanced with making the necessary investments to expand our Services business and aggressively pursue growth opportunities in key markets around the world.
And our business model will continue to yield strong cash flow.
We're confident we have the right strategy the competitive strength the skilled leadership team and a disciplined focus on execution to build on our progress.
With that I thank you again for joining us today and let's open it up to questions for Luca and me.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Luca given the lower cash flow estimates and the pension being $400 million-plus in terms of funding do you plan to issue more equity like you did a quarter or 2 ago to fund the pension? And is that an option to you? And what would be the offsetting share count impact? So Ben yes.
Pension contributions are going to be in total similar to what we've seen in 2011.
So at this point even though we have not made a final decision we are planning to issue stock in a similar size of what we've done in 2011.
Bear in mind that the contributions to the pension plan this year is going to be skewed towards the first half as opposed to the second half as we had last year.
Research Division</strong> Is there any benefit to issue equity and be buying back stock at the same time rather than just fund the pension with cash and then just buy back less stock? Is there a reason that -- to go through the motions of buying back stock while you're issuing equity? The reason is the same that I talked about last year.
It really gives us a bit more flexibility with our cash.
It allows us to be more consistent in the market as we buy back the stock.
And frankly particularly because these contributions this year are so skewed towards the first half we want to make sure that we retain appropriate cash balances throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Can you just recap how many shares you issued in the last tranche? This is 16 million right? 16.6 million shares.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So that -- when you say similar size maybe you do it a few times like that.
We would be looking to do -- I'm talking about the absolute amount that we're talking about right? I mean last year we did about 130 million.
It's probably going to be a similar size.
And obviously the amount of shares is going to be depending on the share price on that day.
But we're thinking of doing one single contribution in stock.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then my follow-up issue is with regard to cash flow.
So it sounds like you were at $2.6 billion $2.9 billion in cash flow from ops.
Now we're at $2 billion to $2.3 billion so call it $600 million of a difference.
You're going to issue some equity for pension so it sounds like pensions may be $200 million of the lowered cash flow from the May.
Can you talk about where the extra $400 million in lower cash flow is coming from now if I'm right on the pension? You're right on the pension.
And if you remember when we were talking at the Investor Conference back in May we gave guidance on earnings of $118 million to $128 million.
So that's come down.
So we got about $200 million in earnings there.
And I think when you think about earnings you need to think about currency you need to think about the economic outlook for Europe.
And also the pension expense itself is $100 million higher than we were expecting at the time.
So we got about $200 million in earnings $200 million in pensions.
And restructuring we're going to be doing a bit of restructuring.
We talked about $150 million of restructuring in 2012 but we were expecting only nominal payments back in May.
So that's the rough math Ben.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that gets us to the $600 million.
And then with all that my final question is okay we know about 2012 now.
You just went through the bridge really.
Does 2013 have a snapback now if we have flattish cash flow this year slightly up? And then due to all these headwinds where current rates are today and best we know without giving earnings guidance or anything technically do we have a snapback in cash flow next year or do similar factors keep it flattish next year? The one thing that I can tell you right now all else being equal that pension is necessarily going to be a tailwind going into 2013 and '14 and '15.
So we are at a point where you've got discount rates which are historical lows given the dynamics of our pension plans.
We've now frozen future service and accruals so we kind of capped the exposure there.
We've had great a return on assets on the pension plan during 2011.
So if discount rates do not come down further then you could have certainly well over $100 million just from pension moving forward.
And then of course we're going to be trying to grow the business and all the other things that should bring additional earnings into the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
My first question is with regard to Europe.
Ursula can you give us a little more color on sort of linearity during the quarter where you specifically saw some of the weakness? And have you seen any changes as we've entered 2012? So on linearity it's got worse as the quarter went on.
If you recall last quarter we spoke about Europe and we were guarded because we still had positive results in Europe or good results in Europe where we knew -- we were suspecting that something would happen.
It started to happen in the early parts of the quarter and it definitely continued throughout the quarter.
And I don't see any -- foresee any significant change in either direction in Europe.
That's the way that we're planning.
We're planning for continued weak activity in Europe.
So linearity yes it got worse as the quarter went on.
And it's all over Europe.
Obviously southern Europe the Italy Spain Portugal Greece et cetera are worse than the rest of Europe but we do see weakness even in the stronger countries where decisions are delayed and activity is a little bit lower et cetera et cetera.
So we do see a significant change in Europe.
Interestingly enough balance that off against what's happening in Europe in United States in developing markets developing markets were strong throughout the year.
It had up and down based on war here or war there but strong business throughout the year.
In the U.S.
as the year went on and we implemented changes and kind of rationalized our coverage got better every quarter -- every month and every quarter.
So we see a relatively strong on the equipment side U.S.
business and a strong developing market business offset by weakness in Europe.
Okay great.
And can you talk a bit about the Services business just in terms of the contracts that you've signed the 14% I think or 15% year-over-year increase in signings? Like what type of contracts are you signing? Where are you seeing the strength? And maybe talk a little bit about ITO as well.
Yes.
So think about Services signings almost across-the-board.
So we've signed in the public sector.
We've signed transportation contracts with -- in Pennsylvania Transportation Authority for example which we announced earlier.
We signed in a private sector with airlines with banks.
So we are seeing a broad range of signings primarily in the U.S.
obviously which is where most of our business is but we also have signings in Latin America in developing markets and signings in Europe.
As we spoke before Europe is in the BPO business and the ITO business is the smaller portion of our business the smaller portion.
And we did a change in strategy at the end of the third quarter in the third quarter to move an executive there to actually manage stickhandle our European business which is particularly important now because we're seeing some headwinds in Europe not yet in the Services business but we want to make sure that we start up that business with the right cost base in mind.
So across-the-board signings everywhere it's really good.
ITO signings were unbelievably strong.
We are managing ITO.
The ITO business is one that clearly we're learning about as we go through more and more.
ITO signing as you know we have some cancels from last quarter that are hitting us on the revenue side this quarter.
We also have a business in the ITO that's a resale business the equipment resale business that while good should not be our major focus and will not be our major focus on a go-forward basis that also puts some pressure on our revenue.
So our purpose with ITO is twofold.
One is to actually accompany the rest of the business that we have and make us felt more relevant in the rest of the business to Document Outsourcing and the BPO business.
But in and of itself is to get around these things that you're now hearing the vernacular sick [ph] verticals where you're not just selling a bunch of technology you're not just selling some software you're actually trying to sell a solution around the vertical market.
Healthcare is the most obvious one to talk about.
It's one that we're spending the most time on.
So ITO what we're doing with ITO is repositioning it.
Focusing on longer-term more higher-value engagements with our clients focusing on -- assuring that we renew.
This is a problem that should not exist.
Renewal should not be a problem for us and it was in quarter 3 and would have been in quarter 4.
So we're focusing on actually changing that and making sure that we actually have value with our clients and intimacy with our clients.
ITO should be good.
Okay.
And then my last question is just sort of more of a philosophical one.
As you think about the fact that you're getting strong growth from services and good signings but it's clearly impacting the margin a little bit with the pressure that you're seeing in Europe how do you sort of balance and think about the investment required on the services side versus the growth given some of the macro trends that are out there? It's a great question by the way.
And the way I would think about this is to think both in the short- and the longer-term right? So in the short term we have to make sure that anything that we sign falls within a set of parameters that allow us to deliver it with high quality and not sink our financials right? So we get lots of deals proposed.
Some of them would not be good if we took them in the beginning.
If we did a lot of California Medicaid I said this over and over again we would be having a significant and broader problem.
By the way the good news is to winning at least 1 or 2 or 3 Medicaids because they are big and foundational for our business.
So what we do with signing is we look to make sure that we can operate them well that we can actually stand them up that we can deliver the revenue the SLAs the revenue and the profits that we want and have strong margins.
That's in the short term.
In the long term we try to make sure that we have platforms that are repeatable that lightens the load.
We stay close to our customers that keeps our renewal rates high and we continue to expand outside of the areas that we have today to continue to grow our services offerings.
So the way that we think about services it is an engine for growth.
And if we and when we operate it well it actually does fuel the growth that we're seeing today 6% growth even with a very poor ITO revenue quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first one I guess is on operating margin.
There was an explicit operating margin guidance for 2012 and it feels kind of flattish I guess after we adjust for the share buyback.
But I just wanted to confirm that and get your thoughts.
Yes Ananda to confirm I think we're planning around operating margins to be flat to slightly up.
As you go through the year probably they're going to be accelerating throughout the year because you're going to be seeing better growth as we go through 2012 but flat to slightly up.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess just sort of follow-up to the Services comment you guys made.
The BPO signings I guess just optically appear to be a bit light particularly after last quarter.
Were they in line with your expectations or were they in fact light? And if they were light with the strength in ITO signings does that maybe push out some of the ramp to margin expansion as you move through this year and maybe even in the '13? So Ananda signings were a little -- BPO signings were a little bit light.
But then I mean they were not significantly off nothing to panic about.
They were a little light.
We had a huge signings quarter as I said up and as Luca said up 150%.
And some huge number in ITO and Document Outsourcing remains a strong thing.
I wouldn't -- I don't see any real issue with BPO signings.
It's bumpy it comes -- they come and they go and we're focusing on them.
So they should continue to come.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Ursula would it tend to shift your thinking around the roadmap to operating margin expansion over the next year to 2 years given the mix of the Services signings? I don't think so but...
So if I understand the question correctly Ananda we -- as we look at operating margins we know that in the short term we've got a number of pressures.
Pension is one currency is another one and obviously some weakness in Europe.
At the same time we have a number of tailwinds and obviously we want to capitalize on those positive factors.
We got the very strong signings that we bring in from 2011.
We got a Technology portfolio which is market-leading.
We've gained share in every geography of the world.
And obviously in share repurchases we'll have a bit on earnings.
And we will continue to do tuck-in acquisitions.
So as we think about it longer term longer than 2012 of course it's our aspiration to continue to grow operating margins.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Last one for me.
Just regarding the comments about the restructuring that you'll be doing as we move through the year can you give us some sense of how we should layer those into our quarters in terms of earnings just so we get the linearity of earnings appropriately set? Well let me give you the Q1.
I think we said $0.01 to $0.02.
They are part -- it's part of our guidance.
We said $0.21 to $0.24.
You should model $0.01 to $0.02 of restructuring.
As we go through the year we'll see how much we're going to be doing.
It really depends on the environment and many other factors.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could it top out at $0.02 or should we almost certainly expect something beyond that as we move through the year? It may round up.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.
Luca I wanted to ask just on the -- for the guidance.
For the sale of the IP that happened in Q4 did that get recognized in Q4 or is that more coming in calendar year '12? So that will be -- is that included in the guidance as well? Yes it's included in the guidance Keith and we've got it well laid out in the MD&amp;A.
The majority of the sale was recognized in Q4.
I think the profit impact was about $16 million.
But then we've got smaller amounts in '12 and '13 because of the way we set up the arrangement.
Okay.
So could I say that the amount in '12 and '13 is relatively -- I mean it's not material to the guidance? Yes again in the MD&amp;A it's $12 million and $8 million respectively to the guidance.
Okay.
Then let's go to -- well let's go to -- then to -- in the EPS forecast.
Could you give us your underlying assumption for operating tax rates please? Yes.
We are guiding at 29%.
Okay.
You've been consistently coming in below that.
Okay.
Well we'll go with 29% then.
Then on -- perhaps this is for you Ursula if I could.
The operating margins just confidence that that works its way through.
I think it's understandable that as you ramp new contracts it's a bit tougher for the new contract versus the maturing contracts.
But just confidence that you're going to be able to manage that margin sequence particularly in ITO where those renewals I think has been a bit tougher than you anticipated.
So I mean it is the operative question and the place that we spend a significant amount of our focus Keith.
We are confident.
I mean we're confident as confident as you can be before you do it.
We have mapped it we know the customers in ITO.
It's all around renewals here right? Because the signings are coming we know the ramps we don't have any really egregious contracts large contracts that are outside of California in which we already are comprehending for sure that will take up a significant amount of investment before we get revenue so that we have a normal kind of layout of contracts.
And so our focus is going to be on renewals.
Our renewal rate overall is a little bit lighter than normal.
BPO is a little bit lighter but fine Document Outsourcing not really that relevant.
The big place that we have to spend a lot of our attention is in ITO and we are doing that.
So we're getting the business and now we're managing the customers to assure that we stay intimate with them.
And if there is a nonrenewal it's because the customer no longer needs the service versus they are not pleased with our service delivery.
Okay.
Yes you just hit my -- my follow-up on that one would be to say it a different way you're not losing those ITO renewals on price? It's just the customers say insourcing? Yes.
Price is generally not the issue here.
There are 2 -- there are 3 reasons why you can move.
Obviously one is that the customer doesn't need the service anymore they in-source or their contract is just done.
The second one is price meaning -- or some other competitive type thing price or terms of conditions which will end up in price.
And the third is the outright loss.
I mean you compete with somebody and they say "I like Joe better than Peter.
And I like Xerox better than someone else." The place that we have to make sure we continue to focus price is not going to be our issue.
We will manage price.
If we want to win it we will win it.
If it looks good in the long term that's not the issue.
It's all around assuring that we continue an even level of contact and service with the clients and making sure that they understand that we are in their camp.
It's basic customer care.
We will -- we are -- we've taken a really big focus on this in the ITO business and we'll continue to do that which will drive up the business.
Clearly price has something to do with everything Keith everything.
Okay fair enough.
I'm going to ask one more philosophical question particularly for you Ursula.
If I look at your layout on Page 13 -- Slide 13 excuse me about 25% of your available cash for 2012 is targeted to acquisitions with the balance towards share repurchase.
And I just wanted to know kind of an IBM type of question.
Is that how you think about the model over the next number of years? Or is there any kind of comments or color you could give that we should be thinking longer term? Yes I think the way that we should think of it for '12 clearly the plan as laid out in Slide 13 and the philosophy pretty much the same as happened in '11.
The way that you should think about '13 and beyond is along the same bucket.
So clearly we are going to use our available cash to buy back shares think about the dividend so that type of shareholder return acquisitions and dividend.
But the mix may change depends on a lot on the price of the shares what's available in the marketplace.
Right now we're using a disproportionate amount of our cash towards share repurchase and it'll -- it may change.
But it will not be so far different.
So we'll not walk away from share repurchases still a very valuable tool for us and very lucrative for the shareholders.
So we'll continue to do that.
And the whole question is around the edges [indiscernible] one way or the other.
Okay.
Okay.
Well I'd encourage you to think about mix more.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Gardner with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to I guess not to beat a dead horse but go back to the Services margin decline a little bit more and maybe try to ask the question differently.
You've always said that 5% to 10% was sort of the right -- well I think it's fair to say that you said 5% to 10% was the right growth rate to think about for the Services business and yet the margins are coming in a little lower year-over-year.
So I just wanted to see if you could help us parse out how much of that is new contract ramps how much is contract run-off and how much is price pressure.
And then I have a follow-up.
I'll give it a try Richard.
We have been -- when you think about the dynamics of gross margins clearly they came in on the Services side slightly below what we were expecting.
And I think the issue has been around the combination of contract ramps which were pretty much included in our projections and renewal rates which were below the historical ranges.
So we've always talked about renewing at about 85% ideally aspiration into 90%.
Our renewal rates have come in in the low 80s for the year.
So that's where you really see that level of gross margin compression that we want to avoid going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in light of that Luca and Ursula could you talk about the right way to think about operating margins for Services for this year and I don't know maybe even philosophically for 2013? I would say for 2012 we -- probably during the first half we're going to be seeing a continuation of what you're seeing during 2011.
But we believe that we're going to be improving margins in the second half because there's going to be an acceleration also in the revenue growth for Services.
And then as we go into 2013 of course again our aspiration is to grow margins all the time.
But we need to recognize that if growth accelerates and we end up winning very large deals like we've done in the past for example with California this is something that in the short term because they're so sizable will have an impact on margins.
But as you look longer term they become profitable contracts and they expand our position in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other question for me and that is was there any meaningful benefits from Japan expedite expenses going away in the fourth quarter? I think that had been a meaningful drag for you earlier in the year.
Could you talk about whether that was a benefit in Q4 and whether there's any residue left there or we're back to 0? We've had very minor expenses related to the disruption in Japan in Q4.
It wasn't a big issue.
So quarter-on-quarter was obviously a slight positive.
I like to step back for a second and talk about operating margins for Technology for the year.
We were up in Technology 60 basis points in operating margins in spite of all the disaster from Japan in spite of currency.
I mean the yen is more than 30% higher against the dollar over the last 3 years in spite of the weakness in Europe.
So I think if you step back and you look at our performance in Technology in terms of preserving margins I think it's been admirable.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
If I can sneak one more in Ursula have you seen any movements on supplies pricing in the marketplace? We've heard from some contacts out there that there are general price increases going through on the supply side here in January and February and I'm wondering if you're seeing that and whether you think that that could potentially benefit Xerox here in Q1.
Through to Q4 just earnings period we didn't see any.
And we've heard the same things that you've heard.
And we'll look around and see how we're positioned competitively.
And if we have space we'll take it.
If we're positioned in a place that allows us to take price up we'll do that.
We want to stay competitive to the marketplace we want to make sure that we continue to gain share.
And so we'll look at the marketplace out there.
And if we can fit it in we'll do it.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I have a question on the Services division as well.
Specifically drilling down on some of the challenges you're having with renewals can you help us understand exactly how you address those challenges particularly this year? And from your prior experience how much control do you really feel you have over this dynamic? And I guess really what we're trying -- what I'm trying to get to is can you give us some assurance that this isn't a sign of an emerging problem with competitive positioning or anything? So we have -- Bill we got a long history around renewing contracts and particularly ACS but also on the Document Outsourcing side.
And we've always been in a range of 80% to 90%.
And clearly our target is to be 85% to 90%.
What we've seen during 2011 has been a specific issue around renewal rates exclusively in our ITO business.
And it's been related to 3 or 4 meaningful contracts.
It hasn't been a widespread loss on renewals.
It's been specific -- 3 or 4 specific situations different reasons.
At the same time we have signed up significantly more than what we've lost.
So the net-net of the 2 things the growth in signings versus the loss of renewal is clearly a positive that we'll translate into revenue growth we believe starting from the second half of 2012.
So there isn't anything systemic that we're concerned about.
And I would say that having grown signings by 15% year-over-year actually tells us that we are quite competitive in the marketplace.
If you exclude the California and Texas contracts that we signed in 2010 mega deals very specific events actually our signings are up 40%.
So we feel very very good where we are in the marketplace.
We've had specific circumstances in ITO.
It's about customer engagement and that's what we need to work on.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes sense.
And then a final question I know we're getting towards the end here.
On cash flow if there are any further downward surprises whether it's macro or whatever it may be or mix at what point just trying to gauge the risk here what point do you have to be more constrained with your cash usage in terms of the share repurchase plans in particular? Is there a line in the sand that you're looking at where you'd have to step back a bit or where it would make sense to step back a bit? Or do you feel fairly comfortable at this point that you've really factored in all the risk to this cash flow outlook? Just to be practical and we've included this in our of course in our earnings range we will be doing most of our repurchase activity during the second half of the year.
So we're going to have much better visibility.
If something happens any collapse somewhere else around the world we would be dealing with it.
We don't need to make a decision right now.
We feel at this point given all the puts and takes we feel very confident that we can deliver on this capital allocation strategy.
Of course at any point in time we can revisit.
It's very difficult for us to get ahead of ourselves because most of the activity will happen towards the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if I could.
I want to get a sense if you can kind of give us some context you've been kind of a perennial cost container or restructuring type company and very diligent in that process.
But are we getting close here to starting to cut into too much muscle with this next round of restructuring and probably more restructuring down the road if the macro worsens? I can assure you that we got plenty of opportunities plenty of opportunities in our product costs.
We have really a gold mine there in terms of removing complexity reminding [ph] the portfolio rationalizing components.
And again we have a significant infrastructure.
It's a legacy infrastructure.
We're not near the end.
I mean we'll continue every day that we come to the office to look for efficiency in our operations.
If we can get revenue growth that efficiency will go into the revenue growth.
If we cannot get revenue growth that efficiency will go towards cost reductions.
And this muscle or things like research our selling resources our customer engagement that's muscle.
And I think what Luca is saying that while everything is needed -- a lot of things are needed to run the company.
There are certain things that are really hard to rebuild if you take them away.
We are not focusing on those areas.
Those areas for as long as we've done restructuring that to the 2000 time have been protected and exalted because we know it's difficult to get them back.
But we have a lot of cost in this company.
And as the world changes we're going to have to actually morph the cost to actually be more appropriate to where growth is coming or just remove it from the company.
And that's the path that we're on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then my second question is around cash flow.
Clearly it's been a hot topic for investors over the past year and I kind of share Keith Bachman's sentiment here.
I'm trying to figure out if your cash usage is being applied appropriately here.
And what I mean by that is we've been hearing now for almost 2 years about all these signings and eventually we're going to get the revenue and thereby the cash flow.
But I hear more about BAND-AIDs and I do really about return on the cash flow here.
And I'm just wondering if you need to maybe jump-start the acquisition machine to really get that cash flow and the return on the cash flow work in the right direction over the next 12 to 24 months.
I don't know where to start.
I think we are making the investments that we believe are appropriate.
We're looking at acquisitions in a very disciplined manner.
ACS has done it consistently.
We keep doing it even now.
And so we look at attractive returns on our acquisition investments.
And so we're going to be looking at the opportunities.
We bought 16 companies during the course of 2011.
It is very important for us that our cash flows are sustainable for the long term.
And so sometimes we get asked why our cash flow has come down a bit versus past expectations.
And one of the reasons is because we put a lot of investments into the business and sometimes they don't come through acquisitions.
Sometimes they come through a new large contract like California for example.
So maybe there's been a bit of a shift between investing acquisitions versus investing in the organic business.
But again I think we look at it from a return on capital perspective and that's the way we actually assess our investment.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the sustainability of Technology margins.
Specifically I'm interested on what you're seeing from a pricing standpoint on equipment.
It sounds like you've turned a bit more aggressive on equipment to drive some unit placements.
How does that flow through to margins over the next couple of quarters number one? And number two is it fair to say that you have gotten more aggressive in order to drive those unit placements? I think that you can look at the unit placements from 2 different perspectives.
Price we're still in the range of 5% to 10% price erosion on a year-to-year basis maybe a little bit higher this quarter at the higher end of the range than in the past but not anything outside of that range.
Big driver here is mix.
Mix is -- mix in all of the categories entry mid and high.
If you look at the product sets that we've been very successful on and the products that we've launched these 27 products they're skewed towards the lower end of the mix range the price range.
So we get lots of activity we'll get good post sale but the revenue doesn't necessarily map to it in the short term because the prices are lower.
I think that the margins for the Technology business connecting it to the previous conversation that we just had the previous question are -- I mean we're in a range where they are sustainable they take work take work to get there.
This is where we manage cost and expense continuously simplification et cetera et cetera.
But I do believe that they are sustainable and I think that we're showing good results from that.
Yes.
Just to add to that.
So as we get into 2012 I just said 2011 was very good for margins in the Technology business.
We actually expanded margins despite of all the pressures.
We continue to have currency issues and we continue to have pension expense issues for 2012.
And so that will put some pressure on Technology margins and that is the reason why we're talking about efficiencies and we're talking about restructuring and we keep managing it.
But I would say net-net when you look at Technology we are industry leader gaining market share expanding margins.
I would say that it's a testament to the quality of our products.
Your next question comes from the line of Deepak Sitaraman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just a clarification if I could.
I just want to confirm that your revenue guidance for the year does include the impact of acquisitions which I expect would probably add a couple of points of growth in itself.
That includes acquisitions Deepak.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Luca if I can just follow up on Europe.
Can you remind us of your revenue exposure to Europe in the Technology segment? And x Europe can you give us a sense of growth in the Technology segment in the fourth quarter? And maybe just talk us through your expectations for the year both for Europe versus x Europe.
So Europe in total is about -- we're exposed about 20% of our revenue base.
In Technology just to give you a sense Deepak equipment revenue for the company was down 2% in Q4.
It would have been up 2% excluding Europe.
So both the U.S.
and DMO were solid in Q4 and we definitely saw the weakness in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And then maybe lastly for Ursula in the Technology segment can you give us an update on where you are in terms of just expanding distribution particularly to reach SMB-type customers? And any metrics that you can share around contribution to the overall Tech segment revenue and perhaps growth that you saw in your SMB revenue last year would be very helpful.
Yes expanding distribution is just something that has been very successful for us.
I think it's showing up by the way in the U.S.
revenue dynamics and the activity dynamics that we just talked through.
The performance of the Tech business without Europe would have been up which is a change for us which [ph] has been on and off.
We have I think a solid footing now primarily focused on the products and the expansion of distribution.
So it's worked out fairly well.
We have everything that comes available that is good for us to tuck in we tuck in.
My -- I don't think I've said this publicly before but after a while you ran out of things to buy.
I don't know if we're quite there but we may be getting there in the Tech side.
So a lot more of our acquisitions will be focused on Services as we go forward.
We'll pick up the odd SMB distribution capacity in United States.
So good news across-the-board I think that we've done as much as we can do with a little bit around the edges to expand it and we'll be focusing on Services in a go-forward basis.
So all of you thank you very much for your time and for your interest and have a good first quarter.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We'll get started on Slide 3 with a review of the strategic imperatives that define our business and align with our financial performance.
First accelerating our Services business growing it faster by diversifying our offerings; aggressively pursuing opportunities in key growth areas like HR outsourcing customer care transportation and health care; and expanding globally.
In Q1 revenue from Services grew 10% in constant currency and now represents more than half of our total revenue.
Second maintaining our leadership in Technology.
Our Printing business continues to benefit our bottom line and remains core to our business model.
We are focusing investments on innovation that drives down the cost of color printing and we're expanding distribution to extend our reach to small and midsized businesses.
We made good progress in Q1 with installs of Xerox products up 7%.
According to recent external market share reports we remain the leader in equipment revenue share for the ninth straight quarter.
In fact we're taking share from competitors strengthening our leadership position.
And third driving operational excellence across our enterprise.
This means adjusting our cost model so we're competitively advantaged and have the financial flexibility to quickly adapt to changing marketplace needs while scaling in key growth areas.
During Q1 Services margin pressure was partially offset by a 5% decline in selling administrative and general expenses.
By executing well on these 3 priorities we're delivering on the fourth creating value for our shareholders.
Doing so by growing revenue delivering solid earnings and allocating capital in the areas of acquisitions dividends and share repurchase.
So our execution is well aligned with our strategy and is reflected in our performance.
But the heavy lifting is in the details.
Since acquiring ACS more than 2 years ago we're making a seismic shift in our business.
It's not just in how we operate but also in what we do and for whom we do it all driven by the diversity of our offerings.
As a result the Xerox brand is now in places you wouldn't expect and serving industries where our relevance extends way beyond printing.
For example just in the past 2 weeks we've been part of the conversations at 2 major health care conferences: TEDMED and the World Health Care Congress.
At both we were acknowledged as playing an important role in simplifying the business of health care through electronic medical records health information exchanges and digital protocols all of which help lift administrative burdens for providers.
Our technology like advanced imaging tends to enable these activities but our deep expertise and customized outsourcing offerings make up the total solution.
Please turn to Slide 4 for more examples of what I mean.
We read in the headlines that governments need to be more efficient but we don't often hear how that is happening each day.
For example last month the State of Texas announced an $848 million contract with Xerox for a significant overhaul of their IT systems that will simplify and greatly improve the efficiency of the state's operations.
We're consolidating 28 data facilities into 2 centralized centers modernizing one of the largest IT systems in the country with improved cloud services and overall security and disaster recovery capabilities.
And while deals like this get a lot of attention cloud services are not just built for large enterprises.
Through our new cloud-based platform for small and midsized companies SMBs benefit from the same infrastructure investments that we make for our largest clients.
For all of our clients large to small data security is paramount to maintaining the integrity of their operation.
That's why we teamed up with McAfee and Cisco to help secure the -- ensure the security of data across every touch point our PCs in servers in the cloud all the way through to the output on multifunction printers.
With this technology backbone our services to industries like health care take on an even more relevant position.
When we're dealing with patient data and the complexities of modern-day pharmaceuticals all of our innovation from Digital Nurse Assistants to customized medication packaging is based on strong security protocols and infrastructures.
That's a quick glimpse of the stories behind the numbers.
We'll share more with you each quarter and hopefully these examples will begin to reframe your perception of Xerox showcase the amazing opportunity that's in front of us and better explain the evolving nature of our business mix and model.
Let's look at how this translates into our financial results.
Turn to Slide 5.
I'll provide a top-level review then Luca will take you through the detail.
I'll close with our expectations for quarter 2 and then we'll take your questions.
Slide 5.
In the first quarter we delivered adjusted EPS of $0.23.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $0.19 per share.
This includes $0.04 related to the amortization of intangibles.
Earnings which are flat from a year ago are in line with our expectations and reflect the investments that we're making to grow our Services business.
Services revenue was up 10% in constant currency and revenue from our Technology business declined 5%.
In total revenue of $5.5 billion was up 1% and 2% in constant currency.
Technology revenue was impacted by the continued weak macro environment the timing of when distributors purchase supplies and by clients increasingly shifting to Xerox's Managed Print Services which is reported in our Services segment.
Demand for our industry-leading management services led to a 7% increase in revenue from Document Outsourcing.
ITO revenue was flat an improving trend from prior quarters and revenue from Business Process Outsourcing grew 13%.
Total signings in the quarter were flat on a trailing 12-month basis which is what we expected considering the absence of any megadeals during the 90-day period.
All in all I'm quite pleased with our growth in services and the benefit it brings to our top line growth all while contributing to our business for the long term through a healthy base of recurring revenue.
Yet in the near term and as expected we're facing pressure on margins as we make initial investments to implement new service contracts.
As a result operating margin of 8.5% was down 6/10 of a point and Q1 gross margin of 31% was down 2 points.
This is in the range of our expectations for the first half of this year and we balanced our investments by continuing to improve SAG which is now at 19.4% of revenue compared to 20.5% a year ago.
Q1 was a use of cash of $15 million again in line with expectations and reflecting the seasonality of our cash flow.
We remain confident in our guidance to generate $2 billion to $2.3 billion in full year operating cash and we're continuing to use available cash for acquisitions and share repurchase.
Turn to Slide 6 for a closer look at our top line results.
Q1 2012 is the first quarter where Services represents more than half of our total revenue.
At 51% it's up from 47% a year ago and it's an important metric that reflects investments in building our outsourcing portfolio expanding our offerings globally and the shifting mix of our business.
As I mentioned total revenue of $5.5 billion was up 2% in constant currency.
Annuity revenue which is 85% of the total was up 2%.
Equipment sale revenue was down 1%.
We're still seeing weakness in Europe although it has moderated for the fourth quarter -- from the fourth quarter of last year.
Sales in the U.S.
were stable in a competitive environment and we're seeing initial benefits from our new sales coverage strategy.
Our wholly owned Global Imaging dealers are focusing on midsized clients while our direct sales force becomes more exclusive in pursuing enterprise level technology and MPS opportunities.
In our developing markets we had a strong quarter in equipment sales reflecting the strength of our channel distribution and competitively priced color devices that serve small and midsized businesses.
And as I said earlier all this activity led to a 7% increase in installs of Xerox document technology building up the number of Xerox machines in field what we call MIF is a good indicator of future annuity growth.
Our approach is to lead in color so Xerox ink is being used to generate the color pages printed in workplaces of any size.
During the quarter our color MIF was up 13%.
Growth in Services is also a big benefit to our annuity taking complex business processes and simplifying them results in a major win for us and meaningful savings for our clients.
For example with Gartner and IDC giving Xerox a top ranking for our leadership in Managed Print Services we're able to sign large-scale MPS deals like the one that we announced recently with WellPoint.
We're saving WellPoint more than $3 million a year by consolidating 9 000 document devices into a lot fewer multi-function systems We now -- We've now assumed full management of California's Medicaid program a massive undertaking and a milestone as part of our 10-year $1.6 billion contract signed in 2010.
It's the nation's largest Medicaid program serving 7.5 million people and we’ve processed more than 90 million claims totaling $7.5 billion just in the past 6 months.
In Europe and Latin America we are expanding our sales and activities and services capabilities.
We're signing new business like the recently -- like the recent multi-million contract to manage call center operations for a large IT organization and one for a global tech manufacturer.
We are an extension of their customer care operations the voice over phone and over the web to support their clients’ needs.
These and hundreds of other examples represent our real business and the business problems that we're solving for clients.
They bring us value in annuity revenue they bring us incremental growth opportunities that boost our bottom line and they prove the sustainable success of the new Xerox.
With that let me turn it over to Luca.
I'll be back to wrap up and open the call to your questions.
Luca? Thank you Ursula.
Good morning everyone.
First I'll just cover revenue and of course we were pleased with the acceleration in Services and we expect it to continue.
Technology was lower but should show decline improvement going forward because Q1 of 2011 represented the most challenging compare of the year for us.
As we expected gross margin was lower 200 basis points year-over-year.
Two main drivers for the decline.
First half of the impact can be attributed to the Services margin compression due to the ramping of a significant number of new contracts along with a few higher margin contracts running off.
Second the increasing Services mix also drove almost 1 point of decline.
The gross margin on our Services business is half that of our Technology segment.
So the strong growth in Services has a direct impact on overall gross margin.
We continue to drive cost and expense efficiencies with SG&amp;A improvement of 110 basis points which went to partially offset the gross margin pressure.
As a result operating margin was down 60 basis points.
We expect both gross margin and operating margin to improve as we move through the year and by Q4 expect to see year-over-year improvement.
The restructuring of $17 million was $32 million higher year-over-year and is fully reflected in our adjusted results.
Adjusted EPS of $0.23 was flat from 2011 with the only adjustment to reported EPS being the amortization of intangibles.
Let us move to the segment slides.
We have updated the content of these pages to also provide a trend view of our results.
Starting with Services we see a very positive trend on revenue with 10% growth in Q1 at constant currency.
This is driven by the strong signings we have had the past 2 years.
The California MMIS deal we are ramping contributed to about 1 point of growth.
Even without that we would have seen significant acceleration with good contribution across all lines of business both government and commercial.
In particular government and commercial health care and financial services began the year very strongly.
Signings in Q1 were lower year-over-year and flat on a trailing 12-month basis which is not abnormal after the second half that was very strong for us and reflects the fact that we had no megadeals signed in the quarter.
New business signings on a trailing 12-month basis are up 12% and drive our revenue growth.
We anticipate Q2 will be a stronger signings quarter given our pipeline.
As important as signings are renewal rates which were within our target range of 85% to 90% for our combined BPO and ITO businesses.
We have highlighted the pressure on Services margin the past few quarters so the Q1 results were not unexpected.
The largest factor is the ramp of new contracts which we estimate is 2/3 of the margin decline.
The main driver of the remaining impact comes from loss contracts specifically ITO from prior periods.
We track margins down to the contract level and we're taking actions to improve the profitability of those contracts that are in a start-up phase.
Given the accelerated growth we expect the Services margin pressure to continue but we see sequential improvement as we move through the year and year-over-year margin growth by Q4.
Let's now turn to the Technology slide.
Technology revenue in Q1 was down 5% at constant currency.
Two main factors drove this performance.
The largest impact came from unbundled supplies revenues which were down 8%.
Unbundled supplies represent a little less than 20% of our Technology revenues and are predominantly aligned with entry products.
They can be volatile given channel inventory dynamics which is what we saw this quarter and they were facing a difficult compare because Q1 of 2011 was the highest supplies revenue quarter of the year.
We expect supplies revenue to be closer to flat for the rest of the year.
The second and important factor is the continuing impact from the launch of our partner print services offering.
This has been very successful and is helping to fuel the Document Outsourcing growth.
At the same time it does shift revenue from Technology to Services.
From a geographic perspective Europe was weak but improved sequentially.
Trends in North America and our developing markets were roughly in line with last year absent the supplies decline.
Segment margin of 10.5% was down slightly from 2011 but reflected continued cost and expense control and a good performance when considering the lower supplies mix.
The most recent market share results show that we continue to gain share on an equipment revenue basis and we expect to continue to build on our leadership position in 2012.
Moving on I'll comment briefly on the key metrics slide.
Total Services signings of $2.2 billion were lower year-over-year and are flat on a trailing 12-month basis.
As mentioned previously we did not have any megadeals in the quarter but the pipeline remained strong and we expect to have a good Q2 quarter in signings.
We add a renewal rate to this slide as it is an important metric for us and one we want to give more visibility to.
In Q1 it was 86% which is in our target range.
Looking at the product-related metrics please keep in mind that these include the Technology segment plus Document Outsourcing.
Total color revenue was flat at constant currency.
If we exclude color printers which is where we saw the supplies impact color revenue would be up 3%.
Digital machines in field continue to grow and was up 2% in total and 13% for color capable devices.
Digital pages show a stable trend were down 2% with pages from color devices up 10%.
Installs were strong with good growth in all color segments except printers which was down driven by lower OEM sales.
We saw strong growth in A4 color multifunction devices and entry production color both areas where we've recently launched new products.
We also continue to see growth in midrange color.
Install growth did not translate into equipment revenue growth given price erosion and mix impacts but this will feed annuity over time.
Moving on to the cash flow slide.
Cash from operations was in line with our expectations and was a use of $15 million which compares to a use of $30 million in 2011.
Earnings contributed $276 million and consistent with normal seasonality working capital during the quarter was a use of $635 million.
Cash contributions to our global pension plans in the quarter were $79 million and combined with the $130 million stock contribution resulted in total funding in Q1 of $209 million.
As mentioned last quarter the timing of pension contributions this year will be skewed towards the first half.
Balance of the year we expect to contribute approximately another $350 million to our pensions all in cash.
In terms of investing cash flow we've spent $128 million on CapEx and $87 million on acquisitions.
Dividends paid were $63 million and we repurchased $50 million in stock.
We continue to guide for $2 billion to $2.3 billion of operating cash flow for the year and we continue to plan use available cash to repurchase between $900 million and $1.1 billion for the year weighted towards the end of the year.
Let us turn to the next slide to quickly review our capital structure.
Our Q1 ending debt balance increased to $9.6 billion.
Given favorable market conditions we issued $1.1 billion of notes in March to pre-fund the $1.1 billion in senior notes which come due in May.
From a maturity standpoint we maintained a well-balanced debt ladder with just about $1 billion coming due annually.
During the course of the year our debt balance may change moderately given the timing of our cash flows but we continue to plan for $8.6 billion for year-end debt.
The vast majority of our debt is in support of our financing of customer leases.
Of the $9.6 billion debt balance $6 billion can be associated with the financing of Xerox equipment for our customers.
The finance debt is calculated assuming a 7:1 leverage of our finance assets of $6.8 billion.
These finance assets represent committed revenue streams from our customers.
In summary Q1 is seasonally a lighter results quarter but overall we came in as expected with a standout positive being the Services revenue acceleration.
Our #1 challenge is to improve Services margin.
We're very focused on this objective and see this as an opportunity going forward in terms of future earnings expansion.
In terms of capital allocation we remain committed to using our strong cash flow to return value to shareholders through share repurchase dividends and accretive tuck-in acquisitions.
With that I will hand it back to Ursula.
Thanks Luca.
Let me quickly wrap up so that we can get to your questions.
Q1 results were as expected.
We have work to do on improving margins while we're scaling services growth through the ramp of new contracts expanding globally and increasing revenue with existing accounts.
In Technology our focus on competitively advantaged color systems and broader distributions led to strong Q1 install growth and double-digit color mix growth.
We're disciplined in managing expenses giving us the flexibility we need on margins to support our Services growth.
We'll see a sequential improvement in margins throughout the year and continued benefits from operational efficiencies.
Our guidance on cash remains unchanged as we remain committed to investing in share repurchase throughout the year.
For the second quarter we expect adjusted earnings of $0.25 to $0.28 per share.
This includes a $0.01 or $0.02 of restructuring and our full year earnings expectations continue to be an adjusted EPS of $1.12 to $1.18.
You've heard me say this before but it bears repeating.
Some companies talk about transformation; we're actually doing it.
Our results this quarter and our expectations for the balance of this year reflect the shifts happening in our business.
They're all centered on building a sustainably successful enterprise with a healthy annuity stream and significant growth opportunities.
We're making progress on every front and I remain impatient to make even more.
I'm also confident that we have the right strategy the competitive strength the skilled leadership team and the disciplined focus on execution that will deliver more value for you and for all of our stakeholders.
With that I thank you again for joining us today.
As we get into your questions I know that you'll want to dive deeper into Services.
So this quarter I asked Lynn Blodgett the President of Xerox Services to join us for the Q&amp;A.
On occasion we'll bring in other members of the senior team during our investor webcast.
This way like me you can appreciate the breadth and the depth of the team that helps me lead this business.
Now let's open it up to your questions and I'll field them and ask Luca and Lynn to chime in as well.
Questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
I guess my first question Ursula is if you could talk just a little bit more about what you're seeing in Europe and perhaps some of the other geographies.
I know you mentioned that it was improving a bit sequentially but I'm curious as to on the various segments and that what you're seeing both like I said in Europe and other geos.
All right.
So Europe was weak but we did see modest light -- modest improvement this quarter particularly in equipment sales line and clearly in the areas that we're focusing on color throughout the spectrum from small to large.
Modest very modest improvement there.
But Southern Europe weak; the rest of Western Europe a little bit better than Southern Europe; and the Eastern European nations which are reported in our Developing Markets Operations generally stronger than all of the rest of Europe.
In North America we saw a continued trend from the fourth quarter which was a little bit stronger than throughout the rest of 2011 which is good.
So we didn't see any downturn there at all.
We did see a little bit of weakness in supplies primarily driven by timing of pricing increases and OEM sales that kind of thing but nothing systemic at all there.
DMO continued strength throughout the regions in DMO.
Just about every place that we do business we're seeing growth as those economies grow.
We see SMB everywhere around the world doing better particularly in our North American operations where we have a particular focus in moving coverage.
We're seeing our Global Imaging operations do even well there.
By the way Fuji Xerox is having a good result as well particularly in China and the Asia-Pac areas that they cover.
That's also seeing growth.
So I think that -- Services by the way one last is Services in Europe in particular we're starting to see expansion there which is very good.
It's still a very small portion of our business.
But we're signing contracts and as we go forward and get more traction there we'll be able to actually call it out to you more specifically.
As I told you before Services in Latin America actually were stronger to start off with particularly in our transportation segment.
So across the world we didn't see a significant change except for in Europe a little bit of pickup from a very depressed level and particularly in equipment sales.
Okay great.
And then Lynn since you're joining us can you give us some of your perspective on Services? What segments you're seeing growth in what you're hearing from your customers and then perhaps how you're thinking about sort of the margin improvement and how it should sort of progress through the year.
You bet.
The areas that we're seeing the most activity in would be in health care both government and commercial health care for obvious reasons given the pressures that everybody feels on health care costs.
Our customer care area is continuing to grow very strongly.
We have some great new tools that we're going to implement there that we think will even make us even stronger in customer care.
Financial services is very strong.
HR outsourcing we've really sort of disciplined ourselves and we're much better at focusing on point solutions.
So those things are all helping us to grow strongly in those areas.
Transportation as Ursula mentioned is very very strong and transactional BPO just continues to rock along.
It's just a very strong operation.
As far as the margins obviously the fact that we have as much new business which we're obviously very excited about as much new business growth that is going to put a certain amount of pressure on margins.
If you look at the decline in Services this last quarter about 70% of it was due to new business startup and half of that was driven by the state of California and about 30% of it was driven by the fact that we had last year as you know lower than we like renewal rates especially in ITO.
So we're seeing some impact from that.
The vast majority of the pressure is coming because of new business signings.
So we're confident that we're going to see -- we like the new signings and we'll see nice incremental kind of growth through the year in margins.
Great.
And then just my last question for Luca.
Can you talk a bit about how we should think about the yen and FX as we go through the year in terms of contribution versus the hedging programs you have in place? Yes Shannon.
Let me start with the impact on revenue because I think it's important to highlight also the effect on revenue.
It was a negative 1% in Q1.
We expect it to be a negative 2% on revenue during the second quarter because euro was particularly strong last year.
But for the full year we expect currency to be 1 point negative to our growth rate.
When you go down to the profit level directionally as you know very well for us weak yen and strong euro is the best of both worlds.
At this point at the beginning of the year we had talked about $40 million to $50 million negative for the year when we started the year.
Rates had improved marginally.
So now with that you probably -- the impact is $30 million to $40 million for the year and that's the way you need to think about it.
We are fully hedged for the current quarter.
We tend to be hedged 60% to 70% for next quarter and then at different levels for the following couple of quarters again and so the whole concept of the hedging program is to smooth out the volatility of the exchange.
But this is the type of impact that we should be seeing this year at current rates of course.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Gardner with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'd just like to address the current supplies inventory correction that you talked about.
Can you talk about what prompted that and where we are and how comfortable you are right now with inventory levels? And just any additional color would be helpful.
Yes we are really thrilled with the activity levels that we saw in the quarter.
They were up 7% in particular and the entry level was up 9% which definitely fuels the supplies revenue.
I'll turn it over to Luca to talk a little bit more about the supplies revenue details.
Yes.
So last year we had some fairly significant price increases at this time of the year and so we were facing a very significant compare year-over-year.
Obviously this is a revenue stream that is very affected by the levels of inventory in our channel partners.
I think that the decline in Q1 will not be repeated going forward.
What we think is that supplies revenues are going to be closer to flat for the rest of the year and so I think we're going to work through this issue starting from Q2 Rich.
Yes Rich if I can add.
I wouldn't read a whole lot into this correction.
If you followed us which you have for a long time you'll see depending on the timing of pricing changes by us or our competitors you'll see ups and downs.
It's a fairly lumpy revenue line for us so you'll see ups and downs.
We're seeing great activity great installs through all of our channels partners through all of the lines that we get to the market through.
So the expectation is that with those equipment sales there will be supply improvements.
So I would not read a whole lot into this correction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could follow-up quickly.
I believe the restructuring charge on the Technology side was smaller than you talked about previously.
Correct me if I'm wrong but could you talk about why that's the case? And I think Ursula you had suggested that there's potential for Technology margins operating margins to actually be up this year for a variety of reasons and I'd just love to get your latest thoughts on that.
Turn it over to Luca… Yes so the restructuring charge may be a shade below what we thought at the beginning of the quarter but we still see a lot of good opportunities across the enterprise.
So in the guidance that we give you now for the second quarter again we're talking about additional opportunities for restructuring.
It's just I think a timing issue.
Nothing more than that.
On the operating margin side as we said we believe that from this point we're going to start seeing sequential improvement year-over-year both in Services and in Technology.
And that will take us to a point in Q4 where we're going to have we believe good year-over-year improvement.
When you do the math we think operating margins should be flat to slightly up for the year but with some level of revenue growth of course.
If I could just add one last point.
Since we will see higher equipment sale revenue in Q2 the margins for the Technology business will be a little pressured.
As you know the margins on our supplies are significantly higher than the margins on our equipment.
But at the end of the day it'll all balance out in the year.
So it's literally just a timing issue.
So nothing more there.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk a little bit more about Services margins? What are you specifically doing to get them up? And what kind of trajectory should we see going from the 9.3? How quickly -- it sounds like you need to be well into the 12s by the end of the year to hit your numbers.
Is that right? And what you specifically doing to get there? And how does the margin play out sequentially? Just for that line.
Yes I'll have Luca like walk you through it and then maybe Lynn could add something some color needed.
So yes 9.3 for Q1.
We see the expense sequentially Ben as we go through the year and getting into an improvement a very significant improvement year-over-year in Q4.
Really the reason is clearly the fact that we are ramping a lot of new business all at the same time.
Very large contracts State of California that's a big example.
And also the fact that we are ramping off some of higher margin contracts particularly in ITO some of the losses that we had last year.
We essentially follow these contracts and I'll let Lynn expand on it but we follow all these contracts at the granular level so each one of them.
And we got specific actions for all of them starting from California but all the other big ones that we're starting now.
I think it's just going to be the way that we go through the year that some of those pressures are going to mitigate as we actually get these contracts to a steady state.
Yes the natural thing that happens to a contract whether it's in start-up mode or through its life is that the margins continue to improve.
And so as the contracts that we have the big things that hit us in terms of margin pressure those things will continue to mature and their margins naturally improve.
So you're going to see a natural in fact a progression in margins because the contracts that we're currently focused on are going through that life.
We haven't seen anything that is unusual as far as the kind of start-up costs that we're seeing.
We are doing a number of things we think to continue to drive margin improvement.
We have some tools that we've developed.
We have a product called Simplicity [ph] that will help us a great deal in our customer care area and we are shifting a lot of our work to platforms.
Our new MMIS platform that was a significant investment is the kind of thing that will help drive higher margins.
And of course as Ursula said we're just focused on operational excellence.
That's our daily bread and butter.
So we have to never take our eye off that ball.
If I can just add to wrap this one up.
Losses this is a place we actually have a lower renewal opportunities -- set of renewal opportunities in the quarter actually and throughout the year is actually good news for us.
So there's less chances that we can actually lose a contract.
But even on the contracts that are up all the contracts that are up for renewal we are on them meaning executives are engaged the operational managers are engaged and we're engaged with the leaders of the other companies we're doing business with to assure that they know that we're paying attention to this.
So I think you heard that we are focused on the normal operation of the business.
We're focused on contract renewals.
We're focused on tools to simplify the business and we've modeled this out and we're pretty confident that we'll be able to see the margin expansion very confident that we'll see the margin expansion throughout the year with a high point in margins in the quarter -- at the end of the year in the fourth quarter.
So one of the reasons why we gave you the additional detail on Slide 8.
It's a little bit dangerous to put out but we decided to put it out to show we'll continue to fill this in throughout the year but we'll be able to show you how the margins are improving on a sequential basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Deepak Sitaraman with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Ursula for the full year can you speak about how you're thinking about the revenue growth outlook? Is there any change to your 2% top line outlook for 2012? No we're sticking to the 2%-plus revenue outlook driven by the mix of business that we saw.
High single-digit growth in the Services portfolio BPO ITO Document Outsourcing together and still a little bit of pressure so flat to slight declines in the Technology business.
This is all at constant currency of course.
So we're seeing -- we see that still coming through.
Any kind of upside that we do see we'll actually pass on in future guidance but we really don't see that changing.
High single-digit on Services and flat to marginal declines in the Technology business.
Research Division</strong> Okay I guess just to follow-up then on that high single-digit outlook for Services.
Just given the trends that you're seeing in terms of pipeline growth and signings on a trailing 12-month basis can you speak about the level of visibility you have there? Yes I'll have Lynn take it.
But I'll summarize before he starts.
We have a fair amount of visibility on the revenue side in Services but go ahead Lynn.
Yes the pipeline is even though we have record very strong record bookings the last 2 quarters of last year the pipeline continues to grow.
And in fact it's up 5% notwithstanding those very strong bookings.
So that gives us great visibility in terms of ramp.
Growth right now is driven by the ramp of signings primarily the signings that we had last year.
One of the great things about this business because it's so oriented to recurring revenue is that you can pretty well predict that if you have a pipeline it's going to translate into a certain amount of bookings and then those bookings will contribute very very predictably to the revenue growth.
So we feel really confident in the ongoing revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just maybe the last one for Luca.
Luca you mentioned margins overall could be flat to up slightly on a year-over-year basis for the full year.
Is that commentary appropriate for just Services margins as well? I think it's going to be -- yes overall.
But keep in mind that we also have the other segment which is also helping.
So yes but pretty close to that.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I had a balance sheet question for Luca specifically around your buyback on a medium- to longer-term basis.
You've committed to buying back $1 billion of stock this year.
How should we think about that as an ongoing commitment? Should we expect buybacks to continue in 2013 2014 at this type of scale? Very clearly we will have a place for share repurchase on an ongoing basis.
As we think about capital allocation we want it to be well-balanced.
Clearly there is going to be room for dividend and possibly a consideration for the dividend increase as we go forward and some element of acquisition that is very important to our business model particularly on the Services side.
So we will -- as we get towards the end of the year we're going to have the Investor Conference in November we will give you a full debrief on the way we're thinking about capital allocation.
Certainly for the remainder of the year it's what we mentioned.
And clearly going forward it will remain.
Particularly at this level of the stock valuation it will remain a very significant element of our capital allocation strategy.
Research Division</strong> Do you think that the commitment to the buyback is limiting your opportunity set on the M&amp;A side? In other words do you think you're missing out on opportunities to accelerate the growth of Services given the size of the buyback commitment? Absolutely not.
We have a pipeline an active fishing and pipeline net out there and anything that we see that fits into the parameters that we buy we operate on.
So I do not believe -- more than I do not believe I know that we're not limiting our M&amp;A opportunities because we're buying back shares.
Research Division</strong> And my last one goes back to the issue around supplies and the recurring elements of the Technology business.
I mean we've been hearing about pretty strong MIF growth for many quarters now yet that doesn't seem to be translating into the annuity revenue stream and now we're actually seeing downsides on supplies usage.
So can you help me understand the disconnect between past growth and MIF and continued declines on the recurring elements in tech services? There are 2 primary elements to that.
Obviously there's an element of price erosion that -- it's there it's in the market and we know that that causes some pressure on revenue.
And the second one is mix.
Mix is big as well.
We're seeing -- particularly the way we've launched products recently we've seen very good growth in installs in our entry segment which obviously carries different levels of pricing.
And so I would say those are the 2 reasons from a pricing and mix perspective.
And obviously we've had a macroeconomic environment in Europe which has not helped in that respect.
If I may Chris add another piece here.
If you think about our business the way that we’re reporting it today we report activity to you.
That activity is from our Technology business and from our Document Outsourcing business.
We just don't -- it makes sense to do it that way.
That's the total activity.
The revenue splits between the Technology business and the Document Outsourcing business or the Services business.
If you were to take into account in the Technology business the revenues from the services that we now book in Services the Technology revenue would have been down 2%.
That is almost totally attributable to the weakness that we see in Europe.
We offset everything else.
Prices up down; activity up; colored pages up; digital pages we manage all of that in a box that's pretty consistent and in line with what we have said in the past except for a very significant downturn in business in Europe.
So all that Luca said but you got to actually start to look at the business -- and we try to give you all of this information to look at the business such that you can actually translate activity which we split into 2 different -- we show in one segment that actually comes from 2 different segments into the rest of the results revenue et cetera.
Your next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess this one's probably for Luca.
Can you give us a sense -- I mean I guess are we -- on Services operating margins are we now in the process of moving toward and reaching -- I guess exiting this s*** [ph] going into next year steady state in Services operating margins? Or could we see I guess some sort of similar dynamic in 2013 where we're still trying to stand up deals and we're not yet reaching steady-state operating margins? I think we're going to exit 2012 at a level that where we feel it's pretty steady state.
So you're going to see some progression during the course of 2012 and then steady state.
But you also need to keep in mind -- and I know you know it very well right? I mean a lot of what we do is driven by the cadence of new contracts.
And so obviously if we continue to see the level of revenue acceleration that we see in this year then obviously you're going to see some ups and downs in margins.
But I would say end of 2012 is going to be pretty much our steady state.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Luca what would be the opportunity for Services operating margin expansion in 2013? Well of course on a year-on-year basis it's going to be obviously significant right because we're starting from a relatively low point in Q1.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I understood that.
I guess what I'm wondering is on a like-for-like basis December quarter Services margins going forward through '13.
What inside the Services business could improve the margins? Well I think that the -- as I said earlier the maturing of the contracts.
We track very closely each contract.
And we know the margins we know the start-up cost we compare it against the models that we have built and occasionally we have things that we have to focus on more than we expected and others go a little bit better than we expected.
But we're confident that as we move forward that natural maturing will occur.
The other thing that will happen in the fourth quarter is that we will essentially lap this big jump in growth.
And that's one of the big reasons that we were confident you're going to see a margin increase.
If we can tack another 5% growth on top so we're growing 15% but you'd see same kind of activity.
I guess that would be a really good problem to have.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes got it.
I guess I'm just trying to get your thoughts on the opportunity to expand margins sort of in 2013 with what's going on with the -- sort of as you see the book of business versus exiting the year.
Yes.
The other thing that's happening is that the use of the platforms that we've made significant investments in the MMIS application that has taken us a long time to build is the first new MMIS system that's been built in 15 years and it's compliant with all of the new regs and everything.
That is a major accomplishment to get that in and as we put applications or states on that new platform we'll see improved margins.
The margin pressure for a new add is significantly less than it would have been -- than it was for California.
Ananda to your question maybe it's a bit early to start for us to start talking about 2013 operating margins at this point.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just one real quick one.
Last one for me.
Luca what should we think about as the gross margin range for this year? We're guiding 31% to 33%.
We'll see that improve sequentially.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with BMO.
To Luca the first one for you.
Could you just confirm that the EPS guidance of $1.12 to $1.18 does that include the actuarial changes associated with the pension whereby you have significant pension headwinds this year? I think it's $145 million.
All in.
Although Keith the increase in pension contributions is in that range in terms of the pension expense which I think is going to be reflected in the EPS is in the $40 million -- $40 million to $50 million range.
But it's all in all in.
The second question I have then.
Lynn this is for you.
You've talked a lot of confidence in the margins and yet over the past -- particularly during calendar year '11 on Services margins did disappoint and it was fair consistent.
And it was driven by as Ursula said I think the leakage on ITO.
And so if you could just come back and address from a management from a focus from a systems perspective what's different now on the renewals in particular that did not exist shortly after Xerox bought ACS and fairly consistently during CY '11? I think the renewal rate in -- particularly in ITO was disappointing last year.
And this not the -- it's not unprecedented that we've seen a point where we've had disappointing renewals in IT.
It seems to have -- there are things that drive it that sometimes we get a little bit behind.
This year because of the focus that we've put on IT renewals specifically we have much more executive involvement earlier in the process.
And as Ursula said we don't have as many opportunities this year for renewal which should help us in terms of the renewal rates as well.
So more focus.
I think just the attention that's the main thing and we've seen it before and that's what we try to do.
Okay.
Ursula one last one for you.
Drupa how should we think about it? Do you think you'll get a little lift of off drupa either in the June or September quarters? Or is the European backdrop such that we shouldn’t be thinking about it? And that's it for me.
Yes I don't think that we should be thinking about a specific drupa lift.
I mean if it happens it -- I actually just don't think it's there.
This show is a show of buying but that buying is generally baked into the normal course of business.
Drupa has been going on for years and years and years and everybody expects what happens at drupa to happen.
So drupa for us will be a color show.
It will a show that we highlight the advances that we have in color and in solutions wrappers.
So not a product show for us but more of a workflow show for us like how do you put together packaging solutions et cetera et cetera.
We'll have some new products there but it won't be a product show as I said.
I don't think that you could bake a whole lot of hope on drupa changing the course of European Technology business.
Your final question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Ursula I was wondering if you can walk us through your latest read on the competitive landscape within document outsourcing.
All of the key players continue to tout competitive momentum here.
So it's a bit tough for us on the outside to see which vendors are really breaking out as long-term leaders.
So if can give us your perspective on that that'd be helpful.
Yes I think it has -- I would speak about 2 companies outside of the other group.
So the other group is Canon Ricoh KM [Konica Minolta] the normal technology people technology hardware providers and they are still infants in document outsourcing.
They're really not large players.
They are trying to get together solutions and offer them but we really don't compete actively against them.
The places that we -- the competitors that we compete actively against are HP Lexmark and us.
Those are the 3 people who are in this document outsourcing business today as mature players.
I'll break out HP of those 3 as behind both Lexmark and Xerox.
HP is trying hard to reorganize themselves into having a good set of solutions on the document outsourcing space but they are lagging for sure.
Xerox is ahead.
We have not only our Document Outsourcing business our Managed Print Services play but the fact that we have a whole set of services that attach to that actually elevates us in the minds of particularly larger customers out there.
We have an open platform one that allows -- and a standard one meaning open and people understand it.
One that allows other people's technologies and other people's workflow and other people's processes to kind of come under the umbrella of us very easily.
And we are innovative so we continue to upgrade what we offer.
So HP behind.
The next -- the last 2 are Lexmark and us and Lexmark is a very specific segment kind of a player.
They pick an industry and go after that industry.
And the good news about that is that it leaves all the rest of the industries for us to focus on.
And we actually continue to actually very very aggressive against Lexmark in the document outsourcing market.
So I think all in all if you look at the ratings of Gartner and IDC if you look at how we're growing this business 7% revenue growth in the quarter and how that revenue growth positions us from a size perspective larger than anyone else you'll see that in document outsourcing we are definitely winning.
It's a very competitive market.
So we can't take our eye off of it but we are winning and we have a gap between our next corporate competitor.
Research Division</strong> And just as an extension of that if we just took a snapshot of the environment today.
When you go up against HP and Lexmark where does -- which verticals types of contracts does Xerox typically have an advantage? And where do you think you still have some work to do? Yes we have strength in the tech sector in the telecom sector and in banking.
I think Lexmark kind of does legal fairly well and they do some financial fairly well.
So we have to -- they're going to try to catch us in the places that we're good and we're going to definitely try to catch them in the places that they are good.
So I think the market is still very wide open which is the good thing and the fact that our reputation is very strong here it's not an easy thing for a customer to do the fact our reputation is very strong here.
And the fact that we're local and a lot of the growth comes in the x -- what we call partner print services space.
We call it XPPS.
The fact that we're local and our global imaging partners go out with XPPS it is really a win for us.
They are very intimate with their clients.
A lot of the growth is in the not-big segment and so we're winning there.
Our coverage is phenomenal there.
So thank you very much and if there are no more questions thank you for joining us today and have a very good summer.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We'll get started on Slide 3 with a review of the strategic imperatives that define our business and align with our financial performance.
First accelerating our Services business.
We're operating in a market that is rich with opportunity especially as more and more enterprises and governments seek efficient and productive ways to manage their operations.
We're taking full advantage of our experience and expertise by diversifying our offerings aggressively pursuing opportunities in key growth areas like e-discovery HR outsourcing customer care transportation and health care and expanding globally.
During the first year of this -- during the first half of this year revenue from Services grew 8% in constant currency tracking very well with our expectations.
Second is maintaining our leadership in Technology.
We're continuing to take a disciplined and practical approach to managing our Technology business for a sustained benefit to our bottom line.
That means providing the industry's best technology delivered through a cash-generating business model and focusing on building our business in color SMB and across developing markets.
During the first half of this year installs of Xerox products were up 5% and in particular our color MIF that's machines in the field was up 14%.
Install and MIF growth is a good indication of future annuity revenue reflecting our continued market share leadership and in particular the share that we're taking from competitors.
Third we're driving operational excellence across our enterprise.
This means adjusting our cost model so that we're competitively advantaged and have the financial flexibility to adapt to changing marketplace needs while scaling in key growth areas.
Operating expenses are down which is indicative of our disciplined approach to managing our cost base.
And in Services we delivered sequential improvement in operating margins.
By executing well on the first 3 priorities we are very focused on the fourth which is creating value for our shareholders doing so by delivering solid earnings and allocating capital in the areas of acquisitions dividends and share repurchase.
The economic uncertainty has created more pressure especially in Europe and especially impacting our Technology business.
We benefit from offering a diverse portfolio that allows us to aggressively pursue areas of higher growth and to manage for improved profitability in more mature markets.
The quarterly numbers give one picture but I'm just as closely managing the progress that we're making to be increasingly differentiated and advantaged in the marketplace.
We're winning customers' trust and helping them simplify how work gets done in ways that may surprise you.
Please turn to Slide 4 for some examples of what I mean.
Key to our Services growth is investing in those markets where we already have respected expertise and where we see potential for market expansion.
The discovery process for the legal industry is a great example.
It's a complex area and one that can be incredibly costly if left to more manual processes.
We've built a competency in e-discovery through advanced software tools and services and we just strengthened our advantage through the acquisition of Lateral Data.
Its software helps firms and helps legal departments manage the entire discovery life cycle in simple and affordable ways.
We're also taking this customized approach to the mobile phone market by acquiring U.K.-based WDS which provides technical support to the world's largest wireless telecommunications brands.
Through its proprietary cloud-based platform WDS analyzes millions of technical support interactions across thousands of mobile devices.
It then uses this data to help clients adjust any systematic problems all real-time fast and in productive ways.
Productivity is also the benefit of advancing Technology and Services for health care.
While the headlines this past month were all about what's next for the Affordable Care Act we were already moving far ahead through our established relationship with health care payers providers and government agencies.
This includes Q2 announcements for developing Nevada's Health Information Exchange and enhancing New Mexico's Medicaid reimbursement services to create a cloud-based portal that gives Florida business owners more health insurance choices as well as being selected as the BPO provider for NIH.
Xerox is exceptionally well positioned as a trusted provider for the business of health care.
That's a quick glimpse of the stories behind the numbers.
And we'll share more with you each quarter.
And hopefully they help to reframe your perception of Xerox to showcase the amazing opportunity that's in front of us and to better explain the evolving nature of our business mix and model.
So now let's look at how this translates into our financial results.
Turn to Slide 5.
I'll provide a top-level review then Luca will take you through the detail.
And I'll close with our expectations for quarter 3 and then we'll take your questions.
In the second quarter we delivered adjusted EPS of $0.26.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $0.22 per share.
This includes $0.04 related to the amortization of intangibles.
Earnings are in line with our expectations and reflect the investments that we're making to grow our business.
Total revenue of $5.5 billion was down 1% and up 1% in constant currency.
Demand for our industry-leading Managed Print Services led to a 6% increase in revenue from Document Outsourcing.
ITO revenue was up 9% a significant improvement from prior quarters.
And revenue from Business Process Outsourcing grew 8%.
Revenue from our Technology business declined 4%.
This was impacted by the continued weak macroeconomic environment and by clients increasingly shifting to Xerox's Managed Print Services which is reported in our Services segment.
I remain quite pleased with our across-the-board progress in Services and the benefit that it brings to our top line.
Strong revenue from Services our growth driver today and in the future gives us financial flexibility and helps minimize the impact from our slowing Technology business.
We continue to make the appropriate investments in our Services business which includes incurring startup costs to ramp new contracts.
So as a result and as expected we're facing near-term pressure on margins.
But also as expected we made sequential improvements in quarter 2.
Operating margin of 9.7% was down 0 year-over-year and up 1.2 points from quarter 1.
And that was driven by a 1.3 point sequential improvement from our Services business.
Q2 gross margin of 32% was down 1.4 points improving 1 point from quarter 1.
This is in the range of our expectations for the first half of the year and we balanced our investments by continuing to improve RD&amp;E and SAG which is now at 19.4% of revenue.
We generated $228 million in cash from operations again in line with expectations and reflecting the need to make higher cash pension contributions during the first half of the year.
We remain confident in our ability to generate $2 billion to $2.3 billion in full year operating cash.
And we are continuing to use available cash for acquisitions and share repurchases.
Please turn to Slide 6 for a closer look at our top line results.
The metrics of these charts tell 2 different but key messages.
First reiterating the importance of Services in the total picture of our business.
A year ago the revenue coming from Services and Technology were about -- were evenly split.
Now Services makes up 51% of the total up from 48% a year ago.
Second a reminder of the significance of our annuity-driven business model.
As you see here 85% of our revenue is annuity and it's up 2% in quarter 2.
We remain focused on increasing profitable annuity-based revenue across our portfolio.
We manage our services business for growth building our pipeline increasing signings of multiyear contracts and investing in acquisitions to strengthen our competencies.
In addition to winning major BPO and ITO deals we continue to lead with our Managed Print Services which are in demand as enterprises look for ways to operate more efficient workplaces.
For example we recently signed a 6-year MPS contract with Boeing to consolidate its printers copiers and fax machines and to implement a global printing framework based on price energy efficiency and ink use.
We also strengthened our annuity stream through the installs of Xerox equipment.
Our approach is to lead in color so Xerox ink is being used to generate color pages printed in workplaces and print shops of any size.
During the quarter our color MIF was up 14%.
Equipment sales revenue was down 6% in constant currency.
And this is where we're seeing the largest impact from economic weakness especially in Europe.
In fact 2/3 of the equipment sales revenue decline came from Europe.
Equipment sales revenue was the most -- has the most volatility in our business right now and it represents just 15% of our total revenue.
We're managing it by being very disciplined with our cost base while expanding distribution to capture the opportunities in SMB and developing markets.
In summary we're clear-minded about the dynamics of our 2 businesses based on market opportunity and the macro environment.
And we're managing our operations to align with the changing nature of both.
In Services again our emphasis is on growth and making the investments to scale so that we can serve our clients in diverse reliable and efficient ways anywhere around the world.
And in Technology we're sharply focused on streamlining the cost base.
Our emphasis is on nurturing our resilient business model in ways that maintain market leadership while generating cash and supporting our bottom line.
Considering the economic uncertainty we now expect that revenue from technology will continue to be weak.
As a result we are revising our full year earnings expectations.
They're based on continued strong year-over-year revenue growth from Services lower revenue from Technology and the ongoing benefit from operational efficiencies.
So let me turn it over to Luca.
And I'll be back to wrap up and open the call to your questions.
So Luca? Thank you Ursula and good morning everyone.
Overall I believe we performed well in a weak economic environment to deliver 1% constant currency revenue growth and EPS within our guidance.
Services as expected has strong growth and we are confident this will continue for the balance of the year.
Technology revenue improved sequentially down 4% year-over-year versus down 5% in Q1 at constant currency.
But this was helped by an easier compare.
And we expect equipment revenue will continue to be pressured given the challenging macro conditions.
We were pleased with the margin performance despite being down from last year.
Sequentially gross margin improved 100 basis points to 32% and operating margin improved 120 basis points to 9.7%.
Year-over-year gross margin was down 140 basis points driven by Services and mix.
Like Technology gross margin was actually 20 basis points better.
The drivers of the decline are generally consistent with what we saw in Q1.
Services margin saw good sequential improvement but as anticipated we had margin compression due to new contract ramp-up costs.
And this remains the largest driver of year-over-year margin decline.
Also the increasing services mix continues to impact gross margin but is fairly neutral to operating margin.
The gross margin on our Services business is 1/2 that of our Technology segment so the strong growth in Services has direct impact on overall gross margin.
We again saw good progress in expense efficiencies with SG&amp;A improvement of 50 basis points.
As a result operating margin was down 70 basis points year-over-year.
We continue to expect operating margin to show year-over-year improvement by Q4.
Restructuring of $29 million was $38 million higher year-over-year and it is important to note it is fully reflected in our adjusted results.
Tax rate of 22.4% was lower than prior year.
The EPS impact from higher restructuring and lower tax rate offset each other on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EPS of $0.26 was down $0.01 from 2011 with the only adjustment to reported EPS being the amortization of intangibles.
Moving on to segment performance.
Let me start with Services.
Services revenue was up 7% in Q2.
The growth rate was somewhat lower than Q1 driven by BPO.
This reflected some timing of revenues and some lower volumes in areas such as transportation and customer care.
ITO showed good revenue acceleration and was up 9%.
New contracts signed in recent quarters are now beginning to ramp.
And we have about 3 points of growth related to intercompany services as this business is taking over more of our own IT infrastructure.
We of course eliminate this intercompany growth within total Services.
Also Document Outsourcing continues to show a good pace of growth up 6% at constant currency.
Given the neutral economic environment we believe this overall performance confirms the strength of our diversified Services portfolio.
We expect growth in Q3 will be in line or better than Q2.
It is worth noting that the Q2 growth was almost entirely organic.
But clearly we will continue to support Services growth with tuck-in acquisitions the latest examples being the WDS and Lateral Data acquisitions that Ursula just highlighted.
Signings in Q2 were lower year-over-year and down 1% on a trailing 12-month basis.
The year-over-year decline is caused by less renewal potential this year despite a strong 89% renewal rate for the combined BPO and ITO business.
New business signings on a trailing 12-month basis are up 13% and continue to drive our revenue performance.
Services margin of 10.6% while down year-over-year showed a 130 basis point sequential improvement.
We continue to expect that by Q4 Services margin will show year-over-year improvement and will be within our 11% to 13% target range for Services.
Let's now turn to the Technology segment.
Technology revenue was down 4% and document-related revenues which includes Document Outsourcing were down 2% at constant currency.
Despite the sequential improvement in Technology revenue it is fair to say we saw increased pressure on our results from the macro environment.
Equipment in particular was lower than anticipated driven by weakness in Europe and the continued success of our partner print services offering which results in some revenue shifting from Technology to Services.
The sequential improvement in revenue was driven by unbundled supplies which was up 5% versus down 7% in Q1.
Unbundled supplies represent a little less than 20% of our Technology revenues and is predominantly aligned with entry products.
It can be volatile given channel inventory dynamics which is what we saw in Q1 and in Q2.
Looking at product [ph] segments.
Part of the weakness in equipment revenue was mix.
We saw a rebound in entry thanks to the new products and OEM sales.
High-end showed very strong color install growth but this was driven primarily by the entry production products.
And mid-range was impacted by the migration into Managed Print Services.
We are planning for equipment revenue to continue to be weak in Q3 and therefore for total revenue declines to be down mid-single-digits for Technology.
Segment margin of 11.3% was down slightly from 2011 but reflected continued cost and expense control and was above our 9% to 11% target range for Technology.
There are obviously a number of different dynamics at play in the market.
And as we move to the key metrics slide I would like to give some additional insight into how we view and how we're managing our different businesses.
Let's look first at Services.
The company has gone through a transformation over the past 2 years with Services now accounting for over 51% of total revenues.
And we clearly expect this trend to continue.
A few important points to make regarding our position in Services and future expectations.
We are a leader in a number of very attractive and growing Services segments including health care both government and commercial; commercial BPO areas such as human resource outsourcing and transaction processing; as well as transportation.
We have strength in 3 very important capability areas: ITO customer care and document management which we leverage across all of our lines of business.
And we have a tremendous opportunity to increase our capabilities leverage innovation to build greater differentiation and expand globally.
This should lead to greater operating leverage and value add which will improve not only revenue but margins over time.
Services will be the growth driver for the company and also will make us a more valued partner to our entire customer base.
In terms of Technology I want to address how we're managing the continued impact of a weak macro environment.
First we have been gaining market share for several quarters and we do not have significant exposure in some of the areas of greatest secular pressure such as consumer and single-function devices.
For instance when you look at the metrics on this slide they're generally stable and in some cases positive.
Second we continue to selectively invest in areas where we see the greatest growth opportunities such as small- and medium-sized business Managed Print Services and color.
And third we have realized sooner than many that there are specific areas of secular pressure such as transaction state [ph] in printing that impact us.
As a result since the end of 2008 we have proactively worked to make our business more annuity-based our cost base more flexible and our investments more focused.
Our document-related business remains attractive.
It has a very large annuity stream and good cash dynamics limited capital requirements and committed revenue streams.
We are the global market leader have great technology and strong customer relationships and we can leverage these characteristics to strengthen our Services business further.
If we now turn to the next slide I will take a moment to review Q2 cash flow.
Cash from Operations was a source of $228 million which compares to a source of $347 million in 2011.
Through the first half cash flow was $213 million versus $317 million in 2011.
This is fully in line with our expectations as the driver of the year-over-year decrease is the timing of pension contributions.
Cash contributions through our global pension plans in Q2 were $158 million which was $80 million higher than 2011.
We now expect second half contributions of approximately $150 million versus $303 million last year.
We spent $115 million on CapEx which is consistent with our annual forecast of around $500 million and we decreased debt by $455 million.
Dividends paid was $63 million and we repurchased $306 million of stock.
This was an acceleration compared to our original plan and we continue to plan to repurchase between $900 million and $1.1 billion for the year weighted towards the end of the year.
Finally we remain on track for $2 billion to $2.3 billion of operating cash flow for the year.
Let us turn to the next slide to review our capital structure.
Our Q2 ending debt balance decreased to $9.2 billion.
In May we retired $1.1 billion in senior notes which was the only term debt coming due this year.
From a maturity standpoint we maintain a well-balanced debt ladder with just about $1 billion coming due annually.
During the course of the year our debt balance may change moderately given timing of cash flows but we continue to plan for $8.6 billion for year-end debt.
The vast majority of our debt is in support of our financing of customer leases.
Of the $9.2 billion debt balance $5.6 billion can be associated with the financing of Xerox equipment for our customers.
The finance that is calculated assuming a 7:1 leverage of our finance assets of $6.4 billion.
These finance assets represent committed revenue streams from our customers.
In Q2 as I said we made good progress on share repurchase $306 million or 41 million shares.
We have said all along that our repurchases will be back half-weighted given timing of cash flows but we are maximizing what we can do in the near term given the share price opportunity.
In summary we continue to be focused on growing and improving the profitability of our Services business while maintaining our profitable leadership in Technology.
We are seeing the impact of macro weakness but believe we are well positioned to have steady revenues and profits through this time.
In terms of capital allocation we remain committed to using our strong cash flow to return value to shareholders through share repurchase dividends and accretive tuck-in acquisitions.
With that I will hand it back to Ursula.
Thanks Luca.
Let me quickly wrap up so that we can get to your questions.
Our results in the second quarter reflect consistent progress.
Growth in Services increase in annuity revenue a steady pace of increasing installs and color MIF sequential margin improvement in Services disciplined cost management and on-track performance with cash generation and capital allocation all delivered to build value for our stakeholders and more value in our business.
Our guidance on cash remains unchanged and we remain committed to investing in share repurchase throughout the year.
For the third quarter we expect adjusted earnings of $0.24 to $0.26 per share and we now expect full year adjusted EPS of $1.07 to $1.12 which comprehends the continued revenue weakness that we're expecting from our Technology business.
With that I thank you again for joining us today.
And as we get to your questions I know that you want to dive deeper into trends especially in our Services business.
So we have in the room with us today Lynn Blodgett who's the President of our Xerox Services business.
Now let's open it up to your questions and I'll field them and ask either Lynn or Luca to chime in as well.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
I guess the first question Ursula is can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of the pressure on the Technology side whether you'd see if this is a cyclical issue clearly Europe is weak from an economic standpoint or more of a secular trend? I think you've talked about it some in the past.
So I'm curious if you've seen any changes in maybe the rate of decline on the secular side.
Just any clarity you can give us there would be helpful.
It's a good question I think one that many people have so we're going to spend a little bit of time talking our way through this.
First let me start with secular -- the secular trends that we're seeing in the marketplace.
We see a growth in color almost across-the-board so mid-range high-end places that we participate.
We see that in color MIF increasing and color pages increasing.
We see a shift a decided shift towards Managed Print Services away from single-function devices.
We don't have a very large business in single-function devices black and white or color at the low end.
And we took advantage of this lack of participation by driving -- by starting and then driving a Managed Print Services business.
More and more customers are pushing towards Managed Print Services.
There is no doubt about it.
All of our competitors are now engaged in Managed Print Services.
We have been engaged for a long time and we're leading.
That's the second secular trend.
We see growth in small- and mid-sized businesses everywhere around the world U.S.
and in developing economies particularly.
We see a move away from which we've seen for quite a few years now high-end black-and-white transactional pages.
That move is continuing and has not slowed down.
It's -- the momentum is there and we have recognized that and baked that into our business model and our guidance on a go-forward basis.
We have not seen a slowdown or a shift in those secular trends at all.
If you look at the macro environment and then I'll bring it altogether we have seen a considered slowing of business in Europe.
We saw this a little bit later than most.
But in the first -- and in the first quarter we definitely started to see the pickup.
We have seen acceleration of that softness in the second quarter towards the end of the second quarter.
That's the reason why we've adjusted our guidance downwards.
We're now assuming and planning for mid-single-digit declines in equipment revenue in the Technology segment.
This is revenue in Technology segment.
This is a big change from where we were in the first quarter.
We were thinking that we could hold that to flat to low single-digits.
Now I think that's not a realistic expectation.
So secular trends haven't changed.
I mean we haven't seen a change.
If you look at North America and DMO we still see pickup in color move to MPS a slowdown in high-end black-and-white printing a pickup of SMB businesses.
So that's still there.
And on a macro side we are definitely seeing a weak Europe.
I hope that answered it.
Yes.
No that was helpful.
My next question is for Lynn actually or Ursula or whoever wants to take it.
Can you talk a bit about what's going on in the health care side in your Services business.
Opportunities challenges given Obamacare and all that sort of developing right now? I'll have Lynn take it.
We are pleased really pleased and very excited about health care.
But I'll have Lynn dive into it.
It's a real winner for us.
Lynn? Shannon as you know we are very well positioned in all of the aspects of health care.
Our health care business has grown and is now a significant part of the overall portfolio.
And we have Services in the private sector both in the payer and the provider side and on the government side.
And so this -- the whole effort around Affordable Care is something that we feel we're very well positioned for as well as just the continued evolution on the private side.
So we feel very very good about our position in health care.
But can you give us some idea of how big it is? It's right now about $2 billion of the portfolio so about 10% of the overall portfolio and it's growing nicely.
And that $2 billion is just for the health care provision in BPO and ITO.
We have obviously in our Technology side we have support of the health care as well.
But for the Services business BPO and ITO we are definitely a leader here.
We also have just recently won some new business throughout the States and you'll be seeing that in the next quarter.
Great.
And then my follow-up question for Luca we've been hearing more about sort of questions about the leasing business your thoughts on how big of a leasing business you need to maintain given your mix to a -- or your migration to Services.
So can you talk a little bit about how you think about the leasing business strategically? Well the leasing business is directly related to our equipment revenue.
We support our customers by financing those leases.
85% of all the equipment that we sell is financed by ourselves to our customers.
You would see that the size of the portfolio has come down a bit in line with the decline in equipment revenue.
It is really a part and parcel of our go-to-market strategy.
It is a great differentiator for us in the marketplace particularly at times when credit becomes difficult.
So it's a business that we like because it's very profitable and it's very much bundled together with the rest of the Technology business.
It will follow -- in terms of the sizing it will follow very much the progression in our Technology revenue and particularly equipment revenue.
Is this something that you need to keep in the same size you have? Or is it something where you can look for partners though [ph] over time? Well again it's a profitable business.
Of course if we can find more efficient ways to run it we will do so.
At this point again it's a very profitable business and that's the way we're keeping it right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you if we should be concerned about Services bookings down 26% in the quarter after being down 27% year-over-year the prior quarter on some pretty easy compares and the dropoff in the renewal rate.
So Ben let me start with the renewal rate.
Renewal rate was excellent during the second quarter we're at 89% with the top of our range of 85% to 90%.
The drop in bookings very much driven by less renewal potential.
Less renewal potential is not necessarily bad.
It means that we got long-term contracts.
And in this given quarter we didn't have much link [ph] to renew.
And as you know renewing contracts tends to bring some compression in margins.
If you look at our new business signings and you look at it on a trailing 12-month basis actually we're up 13% very good.
And by the way we have seen some level of delays in decision-making during the quarter particularly in Document Outsourcing.
Our pipeline is now -- has now grown 10% in the quarter.
So new business signings up 13% pipeline up 10%.
So we are not concerned about the progression of signings.
One of the other things Ben this issue of renewal it's a kind of an interesting metric because it actually is better for us.
If you consider the risk that's associated with renewals and as Luca said with margin compression the fact that we don't have much up for renewal is a good thing and we renewed a high percentage of that.
So we feel very good about renewals and we're glad there wasn't a lot up for grabs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
With regard to the Technology segment if you could just kind of talk a little bit more about your positioning.
What we're seeing is a rapid dropoff in a lot of the entry level in the inkjet -- some of the inkjet areas for certain players.
And I was just wondering if you could talk about your relative positioning among the segments.
You tend to call an entry level at a higher level than some of the others.
And if you could just talk about your relative positioning there and by the segment and what kind of deceleration you're expecting.
Right.
So there's 2 ways to look at this.
First is on the traditional single-function low end either consumer or very small business very very small business market.
We are a de minimis player in that portion of the market.
We serve those customers through resellers.
Any resellers who are interested in taking our products and moving it we're a very very small player there.
The next segment is a little bit higher up in the SMB place and primarily color and multifunction devices A4 configuration but some small A3 as well.
If you look at our install growth across entry we've grown installs in all of those places and even in the very very small color printers A4 color and A4 Mono.
But we are relatively small in this segment and serve it through resellers.
The way we participate here is through MPS.
And MPS does 2 things for us.
One we can deliver some of our technology into a client's account SMB and large customers as well.
But we also through our success in MPS take over pages in clients' accounts that are not done on our technology today.
So what we are seeing is definitely a softening of the market potential for the small devices particularly single-function devices.
And we participate in that not by bringing new technology only but by bringing new offer called MPS.
I hope that answered it.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And could you just clarify how -- what kind of growth rate now you expect at the high end considering I think it has a disproportionate share of the EBIT in the segment? Yes.
We still -- we expect to continue to grow color high-end color mid- to high and high-end color installs and activity and revenue particularly in color.
And we expect to continue to see weakness or declines revenue declines in our high-end black-and-white business.
There's no doubt about either those things.
Luca -- you want to say something Luca? Because I think that that's -- yes so the trends haven't changed.
I mean we're shifting towards color.
We're still moving some pages down from offset to color driven by applications.
That's why we're seeing even in weak economic environment some buoyancy in color the color metrics and we are definitely continuing to see the move from black-and-white in the high-end.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with BMO Capital Markets.
I'd like to extend Ben's question for a second if I could.
On bookings A what are you anticipating for the next couple of quarters? The compares certainly don't get any easier.
And then part -- well I'll save part B of that question.
But if you could just go over A for a second.
We anticipate a sequential progression in signings.
We know we signed a lot during the course of the second half of last year.
But clearly we expect the signings acceleration as we get into Q3.
The pipeline is growing.
The pipeline is strong and is growing.
It's growing 10% and is growing across the 3 lines of business and in subsegments of the business so we're not seeing a concentration of pipeline at all and we're seeing expansion in just about all over the line.
So we do expect this as Luca said for signings to continue to be strong.
Okay.
But if I extend that for a second let's presume for the year because right now you are down 26% year-over-year first half.
So let's say you're down 20% to 25% for the year on your bookings.
With that as an assumption will you still be able to grow Services say in the mid-single-digits to high single-digits as you look out over calendar year '13? Yes.
I think that the signings rate that you're looking at is a little bit misleading because of the renewals.
And again if we don't have the challenge of renewing something that's better than it coming up for renewal because we don't have a reprice and that is skewing the number.
As Luca said we definitely have a difficult compare in the second half.
But we expect bookings new business bookings which are the things that -- new business bookings and renewal rate are the 2 things -- not renewal volume but renewal rate are the things that drive growth.
And because those are improving we feel comfortable in maintaining the growth rates.
Okay.
Let me ask another on Services.
Ursula for you the tuck-in acquisitions is identified as being $300 million to $400 million for the full year.
Is that a run rate we should be thinking about even as we look at CY '13? We haven't given a lot of guidance on CY '13.
But I would say that acquisitions across-the-board in both Services -- across-the-board in Services and in Distribution a little bit less there are part of the business model for our business.
And so tuck-in acquisitions is something that you should continue to see particularly in Services for the foreseeable future.
Okay.
I'm going to ask one more then I'll cede the floor.
For Lynn if I could Lynn could you just describe how your direct level reports have changed in the last year as the business has changed? And what I'm interested in is the influx of say Xerox people or even adding to third parties from Accentures to the IBMs of the world that would help in the consulting side of the business or ITO areas.
Well I think that we have a very good mix particularly in my direct report of people who have experience from the private sector and the public sector.
We have continued to over the last year to align the chief -- the operating officers on a more vertical basis so we have a commercial health care person a government health care person and so on.
So we think that improves the focus and the subject matter expertise.
And we've had nice movement of people from the traditional ACS side of the business over into the Xerox ranks and vice versa.
So my chief financial officer for example is directly from Xerox and has been a tremendous addition to us.
And we continue to look outside.
We try to promote from within as much as we can.
But we also know that it's -- that you have to have a healthy mix of new talent.
A lot of our new talent comes via acquisition.
And that's probably the biggest force of influx of new talent.
But we because of each competitor that we have go through cycles.
And when one is having difficulties we try to take advantage of that and hire talent from those people.
Your next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the first one is for Luca.
Luca can you walk through how much wiggle room I guess through the cash flow dynamics for a CFO? And I know you sound like you said you came in line with what you were expecting this quarter.
I think it was a little bit lighter than what most folks were expecting.
So can you talk through sort of the wiggle room in the reiteration of the guidance for the second half of the year? Sort of I guess how comfortable are you now with that guidance because you didn't lower it but you're lowering overall P&amp;L guidance and maybe what some of the influences are in there? And are there any tailwinds that we should be thinking of? Sure.
And let me start with that with the issue of guidance.
So we're still comfortable with the $2 billion to $2.3 billion even though we've taken earnings down.
When you look at our reduction of guidance in EPS when you do the math it translates to approximately $100 million of pretax cash earnings.
So that obviously that's a headwind.
What offsets that is the fact that a portion of the reduction comes from equipment.
And so also our leasing business will reduce our leasing receivables will come down and that will give us a partial offset in cash.
And then the other tailwind that we have is that we now expect our pension contributions to be about $50 million lower than we were forecasting previously because of this recent pension funding legislation that was passed at the end of June.
So that's why we end up with a similar cash flow as prior quarter.
When we look at it in progression first half versus second half again we have delivered exactly the same level of cash flow in 2012 first half versus the first 6 months of 2011 when you exclude the different timing of the pension contributions.
So as we look ahead and we know how much cash we have delivered last year again we think we can be well within the range.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Awesome.
And I guess for probably for sort of for Luca and for Lynn on the Services operating margin expectations for the second half of the year how does the macro softness -- or does macro softness influence what you guys are expecting from the Services side through the year? Then I have a follow-up to that as well.
Yes.
In general Services is much more resilient to the macro but there are areas of our Services business that -- and we've seen it already in Q2 where for example transportation or customer care that you end up getting lower volumes with lower levels of activity.
But as we look at our progression we said it before we expect that by Q4 we will be within our target range 11% to 13% for our Services operating margins.
And we were pleased with the progress that we made in Q2.
We expect Q3 to be more or less in that ballpark that we've seen for Q2.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Luca -- it's just a follow-up on that.
I mean are the operating margins in Services have they been tracking relative to your expectations? And do you have any -- is there anything that can possibly offset some of the lower volumes like lower unemployment claims or something like that? Of course we have such a diversified portfolio that you always get some offset.
But again in Q2 we -- our operating margin in Services was slightly ahead of our expectations.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the supplies revenue growth.
You had mentioned that it was partially driven by timing of purchases for channel partners.
Could you dig into that a bit more and help us understand how much of an impact that had on growth? And then off of that how should we think about the growth pattern as a result of that in the third and fourth quarters? And then I guess finally on that how should we think about macro risks to supplies consumption in coming quarters given that I think some of your competitors are starting to see some consumption pressure as a result of the macro environment? Yes.
So let me start with Q1 and Q2.
There were inventory dynamics in Q1.
They were kind of negative so we were down 7%.
In Q2 the positive 5% Bill is a combination of an easier compare because of the Japan situation last year.
And I would say it was about 50-50 some of it was the reversal of some of this inventory dynamics some of it was the easier compare.
As we look at the second half of the year we expect some slight decline.
So when you look at the full year for supplies down slightly for the full year which is exactly what we said last time around.
And of course some of it is around macro weakness.
And you asked about the supply consumption and what -- how they tie to macro.
Remember that these supplies that we're reporting here is not all of the supplies that we actually sell in our business.
Most of the supplies are bundled in our contracts.
This is about 20% of the supplies and as Luca said is volatile given our channel partners buying at certain times versus pricing et cetera and their cash flow needs.
But on the major portion of our business the supplies are trending towards the macro environment which is a move towards color a move towards MPS.
So all of the things -- and a move away from black-and-white at the high-end.
That is in the business model and incorporated in how our supplies are being consumed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one more question.
There's been quite a bit of variability on share count estimates for you guys particularly as folks try to fine-tune the timing of the buybacks.
Just so we're all level set can you help us understand how you're thinking about the diluted share count dynamic in the third and fourth quarter and as we exit the year? Yes.
So Bill we provided on Page 20 of our deck we provided you with the fully diluted shares as of June 30 right? That we are at 1 366 million.
And then you need to think about it in terms of the different dynamics.
We're going to be buying back shares throughout that quarter I would say relatively consistently.
And we will be issuing some minor amounts for stock compensation plans.
And then you need to do the average of the 3 months.
And then you'll come out with an -- weighted average shares for adjusted EPS for Q3.
And then you take whatever is the ending point and that would be your starting point for Q4.
I hope it's clear enough.
But clearly we can give you much more detail if you want separately.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess just to clarify the variability particularly is on the fourth quarter.
Some folks have a pretty significant decline in the share count because of buyback assumptions.
So specifically if you could help us understand how we should think about that sequential move with the back-end-loaded nature of your buyback.
No.
Right.
You're not going to see it.
You're not going to see the full impact right because it's going to be a weighted average of the 3 months of Q4.
So for the purposes of EPS it's obviously a limited impact.
You will have the full effect only starting in January of 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question is more high-level.
Just curious here Ursula or Lynn if you're starting to see some folks pull forward purchases because they're worried about decreased purchasing power owing to currency fluctuations down the road.
So are you worried that maybe the forward quarters are maybe being mortgaged here in the very near term because of some currency issues? Not at all.
We are not seeing -- that dynamic is an interesting one that you just said.
We're not seeing that.
We see a healthy mix of people telling us that they're going to wait people buying now and people -- we don't see a lot of people saying "Please I want to buy earlier." We're seeing a normal business mix here particularly on the Services side.
On the Technology side what we are seeing is people saying "For any large equipment purchase let me think about it a little bit more." And for -- and therefore sweating their assets a little bit more.
And therefore what we see equipment sales revenue softness with that.
That's primarily happening in Europe but we're also seeing in the United States a mix down.
So people are buying particularly in color for example they're -- our color install growth and activity growth was at the lower end of the high segment of that market.
And so you see a huge activity growth but it doesn't always translate to revenue because the number of devices -- the sizes of the devices are smaller.
But we're not seeing people move forward stuff and therefore putting pressure on our go-forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other question here either for Luca or Lynn just kind of curious here in terms of the Services business.
You're definitely signaling it appears that the gross margin improvement in Services are sustainable.
And I'm trying to figure out how that impacts the cash flow.
Are we getting to the point now where you're going to finally see later this year and early 2013 that positive inflection point where the start-up costs of a lot of these Services engagements starts to fade and thereby you start having better gross margin but also better cash flow? And is that supporting the cash flow reiteration for 2012? So first of all on gross margins.
And I think you're asking about operating margins on the Services side as well right? Let me repeat we expect to see -- to come out of 2012 at an operating margin level for Services which is better than 2011.
And obviously we believe that that will carry forward in 2013 and give us some tailwind.
Regarding capital use and the ramp-up of these contracts clearly the investments that we've made for the contracts that we're ramping up are declining because we've now ramped up these contracts.
But we want to continue to grow this business.
And depending on the profile of the contracts that we're going to be signing there's going to be capital requirements.
And certainly we're not going to shy away from growing the Services business because it requires some capital investment upfront.
From an operating cash flow perspective I'll just repeat what I just said before.
We are comfortable with our guidance.
And it includes the type of investments that we need to make for the Services business.
This year in general the Services business has fewer megadeals than we've seen in 2010 and 2011.
These megadeals typically requires additional capital.
So when you do a compare year-over-year there's less use of capital on the Services side for new contracts.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the competitive environment on both the Technology business and the Services business.
Ursula on Technology in your prepared remarks you indicated you're gaining some market share so I was hoping to flush that out a little bit.
Where are you seeing market share gains against which competitors and in which segments? And then secondly as it relates to Services and the deferral of activity that you referenced are you likewise seeing an increasing competitive environment or pricing environment on those new contracts? Okay.
I will take the share and then I'll have Lynn chime in on the pricing environment of Services.
So on competitive environment in Technology we are absolutely gaining share publicly reported externally reported positioning we gained share in all -- we've gained share in all segments of the business in North America and in developing markets.
And it's kind of hard to tell what's exactly happening in Europe.
It seems like we're gaining share there as well but we also have some share weakness in certain segments.
So potentially yes we're gaining share.
If I can just interject on -- just trying to help you Ursula that's all.
In terms of the deferral of opportunities that was just alluded to that first of all is not substantial and it's not driven by a change in competition.
It has much more to do with people just being a little more cautious in their decisioning process.
We're always asked about the change in competition or are we seeing a significant shift from one competitor to another.
Because we're in so many different markets we deal with competitors a very wide set of competitors.
And in general we haven't seen any sort of a material shift in the competitive landscape.
Let me go back to Technology I'm not choking anymore.
So as I said we are gaining share particularly in the United States and in key markets in developing markets.
We are gaining in most segments.
And the competitors that we're taking from are other traditional competitors.
I mean there is Ricoh who has some challenges that they're working their way through in 2012.
There's HP there's -- I mean normal places different competitors different segments.
The most competitive segment right now is the high end of the color printing business.
It's probably the most competitive segment and we're holding our own there and in certain places winning share.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is around R&amp;D and your commitment to R&amp;D.
On a year-on-year basis R&amp;D is down 8% on a 2-year basis it's down 17%.
Is this level of R&amp;D sustainable over time? And can you continue to cut R&amp;D and remain competitive in both Tech and Tech Services? Important to keep in mind that when you look at our R&amp;D number they're only a fraction of what we spend right? Our R&amp;D activities are coordinated with Fuji Xerox in Japan.
And when you combine the R&amp;D spend of the 2 companies you actually conclude that our R&amp;D investment in Technology is very healthy.
There are some areas of R&amp;D particularly the noncore areas where obviously we're looking for cost efficiencies and we look for outsourcing opportunity in that space.
But those are again I repeat the noncore portions of R&amp;D.
We feel very well -- very good about our product development capabilities as is reflected in the fact that we've been gaining market share for several quarters.
And innovation in Services shows up in a shift that we're making in our core R&amp;D that you see reported.
But also other innovation in Services happens in a way that doesn't come out it's almost in the operating expense line of the business.
So we're very focused on R&amp;D on innovation very focused on innovation.
We are coordinating with Fuji Xerox and we are absolutely not stepping away from being a market leader in all of the areas that we said were focus for us.
That's Services all lines small- and medium-sized business so we have a lot of efforts there color for sure and MPS spending a lot of money in those areas.
And we'll continue on a go-forward basis.
Your final question comes from the line of Alban Gashi with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is as the Technology business comes down throughout the year given the equipment downturn how does that impact the Technology margins as you get higher supply side? And then just a quick follow-up for Lynn on Services.
No.
Obviously without a doubt -- and that is the reason why we've reduced guidance on EPS.
Without a doubt a slowdown in equipment and a slowdown in Technology revenue in general has an impact on margins so we're going to see some lower margins on the Technology side.
The way we deal with it is the way we've been dealing with it for many years which is really relentless focus on cost management and trying to grow those areas of the business that provide some growth opportunity.
But that's fundamentally Alban the reason why we've taken EPS down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess Lynn on the Services margin.
As you get back into your target range of 11% to 13% can you put into context some of the drivers of between the mega contracts maturing overall operational improvements and then just revenue growth and mix sort of ranking them? Well I think that the biggest contributor would be the ramping of the megadeals.
But as Luca said we haven't had as many megadeals this year as last year so that in and of itself should provide us some relief.
But we also want to continue.
We never want to shy away from an opportunity that has a reasonable return associated with it because of the start-up expense.
And so we're -- we think it will come from the lower megadeals where as we implement we improve operational efficiency.
So you have that investment that happens when you're starting up and then you have a natural improvement in productivity just as the contract matures so that will also contribute.
But we hope that our bookings will continue strong and so that will counterbalance that to a certain extent.
Research Division</strong> And I guess just as a quick follow-up to that.
As you end the year in the fourth quarter you said you expected to be higher year-over-year than the fourth quarter of last year.
But I guess where are you expected to be within the 11% to 13% range? Within that range.
Research Division</strong> Lower higher end? Yes.
Solidly within the range.
Solidly within the range.
And we'll give you more -- we have an investor conference in November and we'll be able to give you more detail about the Services business and the progression that we're making there which is very strong very good on just about every operational line.
And the Technology business where we still have a very strong position we'll be able to lay out in more detail what we expect for 2013 and beyond at the investor conference.
So thanks for your time and for your interest and please enjoy the weekend.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
After the presentation there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
We'll get started on Slide 3 with a review of what we're seeing in the marketplace and how it's affecting our business.
We began the year knowing we'd face certain challenges especially as the European economies came under significant pressure as we made strategic investments to ramp our services growth.
However we did not predict the incremental strains on the business from more worldwide -- widespread economic uncertainty especially in the United States.
During the third quarter we experienced a much more constrained spending environment in the States.
European economies remained weak and developing markets were stable.
Overall our third quarter performance reflects shifts in our business as services become a larger portion of our revenue as well as the dynamics of a challenging economy that's creating cost pressures for large enterprises and governments.
For example due to budget constraints less funding is available for major government projects.
In the rare case as we experienced this quarter implementation on a committed project was halted even after we made upfront investments to get it off the ground.
The resulting impact can be seen in our Q3 services margin which came in lower than we expected.
The conservatism we're seeing in government has transferred to large enterprises as well.
It leads to longer sales cycles shorter contract durations and smaller related contract value.
This is certainly a prudent way to manage operations in times of economic volatility.
It's definitely how we're managing our business and how our clients are managing theirs.
It's also one of the reasons that we're seeing clients adopt Managed Print Services which deliver cost savings quickly with minimal upfront capital investment.
That said when I review our third quarter results through the lens of what's happening in the marketplace I remain confident that our strategy is sound that our healthy annuity and our diverse portfolio help us mitigate challenges and that our focus on cost and operational efficiencies give us the flexibility to invest wisely in growth and in building shareholder value.
So let's move to Slide 4.
I'll provide an overview of the quarter.
Luca will cover some additional details and then we'll take your questions.
In the third quarter we delivered adjusted EPS of $0.25.
On a GAAP basis earnings were $0.21 per share.
This includes $0.04 related to the amortization of intangibles.
Total revenue of $5.4 billion was down 3% and down 1% in constant currency.
It is important to note that the fundamentals of our strategy are delivering as expected.
We're managing our Services business for growth and our Technology business to maximize profit.
Our Q3 results reflect consistent progress in both areas top line revenue growth from services and operating margin improvement from technology.
Services revenue was up 6% in constant currency.
This includes a 9% growth in our BPO business a 4% growth in Document Outsourcing and 6% growth in IT Outsourcing solid across-the-board progress.
Services now represent 52% of our total revenue.
Revenue from Document Technology was down 7% in constant currency.
Equipment sales were more significantly impacted by economic and industry trends than prior quarters especially in the United States and with large enterprises.
We expect continued pressure in this area and we remain clear-minded on the best way to invest in and manage the business.
For example we're expanding indirect channels to capture more of the SMB opportunity and in our mature print-related businesses we're maximizing profitability through a more efficient infrastructure.
Margins from our Technology business held up well in the quarter.
Margins in Services did not.
In addition to making planned upfront investments in several new services deals which we knew will result in year-over-year margin decline we saw the profitability of a few large government contracts become hampered by constraints in government spending resulting in a greater quarter 3 margin decline than we expected.
So the major issues are understood but then that doesn't make them acceptable.
We're reacting quickly and working hard to mitigate the impact and get our margins back where they need to be.
To do this we are planning for additional restructuring during the balance of this year which will be primarily focused on delivering operational improvements in our Services business.
Luca will share more details on the related Q4 charge.
We generated $594 million in cash from operations keeping us on track to deliver $2 billion to $2.3 billion in full year operating cash and we're counting -- we're continuing to use available cash for acquisitions and share repurchases.
The quarterly numbers give one picture but understanding the breadth of our new company is fundamental to the value and the sizable opportunities in front of us.
The Xerox brand is behind the scenes in many areas that may surprise you areas where we're asserting leadership we're earning customers' trust and we're winning significant new business.
Turn to Slide 5 for some of the examples.
It's important to note that many of our government contracts support nondiscretionary programs like Medicaid which despite budgetary pressures always needs to be fully funded.
In fact much of health care is nondiscretionary for providers and payers alike.
Xerox had a deep expertise in the business of health care simplifying the administrative complexities and preparing government employers providers and payers for changing regulations.
As a result major insurers depend on Xerox to handle their call centers for Medicare claims reimbursement.
And more and more health care providers are calling on us to help implement electronic health record systems a rapidly growing business in which we are a key player.
Emerging markets provide another area of growth for us and reflect one of the benefits of Xerox acquiring ACS.
Our brand strength is key to expanding outsourcing services beyond the U.S.
We're able to tap into long-established relationships with enterprises around the globe to shift from being a Document Technology provider to a broader solutions partner.
For example we're handling the transaction processing for clients in a major Latin American bank opening -- bank open new retail accounts.
And in Russia we're applying our IT and advanced imaging expertise to develop a new invoicing system for a large retailer.
Enterprise -- expertise and innovation play across several industries and are the differentiated advantage that we bring to clients who want more than a basic service.
That's why McDonald's selected us to provide their restaurants' IT support in several regions and why we won $153 million deal to manage the data centers for a global energy company.
We don't want for opportunities and we're making meaningful progress in capturing them around the world and throughout our business.
Please turn to Slide 6.
There are 2 important points that these numbers reflect.
First reiterating the increasing strength of our Services business as it becomes a larger portion of our total revenue and why we are so focused on acquisitions innovation and global expansion to give us even more scale and diversified offering.
A year ago Services represented 49% of our total revenue and now it's 52%.
Second a reminder of the significance of our annuity-driven business model.
As you see here 85% of our revenue was annuity.
That's $4.6 billion in recurring revenue up 2% this year.
While equipment sales the much smaller percentage of our business is most impacted by economic and industry trends we continue to benefit from the stability of an annuity-based business model that helps us deliver solid cash flow and earnings.
So in summary this quarter presented its fair share of challenges and we believe economic headwinds are still ahead of us.
At the same time we too are closely managing our operations to drive more efficiency and to give us more financial flexibility as our business dynamics shift.
In Services again our emphasis were in growth and margin improvement prioritizing investments in areas that provide the strongest return.
And in Document Technology maintaining our leadership in mature markets is a priority so we can continue to benefit from their profitable annuity streams.
As important we're pursuing key growth markets including digital color and SMB to help boost top line and bottom line performance.
Please let me turn it over to Luca and I'll be back to wrap up and I'll open up the call for questions.
Luca? Thank you Ursula and good morning everyone.
I will begin by reviewing our earnings and then spend some time on our segment performance cash flow and capital allocation.
During the quarter revenue declined 1% on a constant-currency basis.
We expected Document Technology revenue to be pressured given a tough year-on-year compare and in the end a decline of 7% at constant currency was about 1 point below what we expected driven by weakness in equipment revenue.
However segment margins remained healthy.
In services revenue continue to show strong growth at 6% constant currency but margins were below expectations driven by pressures on a number of government contracts as well as lower volumes in some areas.
As the result of these trends we expect total revenues in Q4 to be flat year-over-year.
The margin dynamics in Services drove an operating margin decline of 100 basis points.
The bottom line impact was partially offset by improvement in technology margin and continued efficiency and productivity actions on the expense side.
Restructuring was $18 million higher year-over-year and as a reminder is fully reflected in our adjusted results.
Equity income was $9 million lower year-over-year driven mainly by higher Fuji Xerox restructuring.
Given the impacts of macro uncertainty the government budgetary environment and declines in Document Technology it's important that we continue to proactively manage the cost base of our business.
As a result we will also be taking a restructuring charge during Q4 which we are in the process of assessing and will likely be in the $50 million to $100 million range.
This action will put us in a stronger position entering 2013 and will address productivity opportunities across the enterprise primarily in the Services segment.
Adjusted EPS of $0.25 was down $0.01 from 2011 with the only adjustment to reported EPS being the amortization of intangibles.
Moving on to segment performance and we'll start with services.
We continue to see good revenue growth up 6% during Q3.
BPO revenue was up 9% ITO was up 6% and both were pretty consistent with the first half.
Document Outsourcing growth of 4% slowed a couple of points mainly due to lower volumes but overall it is showing good momentum.
Year-to-date through September BPO is up 10% constant currency and the entire Services business is up 8%.
The 2 areas I would like to spend more time discussing are signings and margins beginning with signings.
Although they were up 19% sequentially signings came in below our expectations and were down around 20% year-over-year.
Certainly 2011 was an outstanding signings year with several mega deals.
In contrast this year we have had smaller-sized deals contract lengths have been shorter and we are seeing customer decision delays caused by the increased economic uncertainty.
Q4 we'll have another difficult compare but we expect to see sequentially higher new business signs and we remain pleased with our high success rate on renewals.
I also want to point out 3 positives that are not reflected in the signings data.
Document Outsourcing signings given reporting limitations do not include Partner Print Services which have been growing very strongly.
Second the improvement in renewal rate this year creates less of a headwind from contract losses as we move into 2013.
And third our pipeline is up 9% year-over-year and it is at an all-time high.
Turning to margins which were well below our expectations we had anticipated sequentially flat margins but we experienced a sequential decline of 120 basis points due to 2 primary factors.
Government was the largest driver of the sequential miss.
Within government we specifically had to absorb in Q3 the defunding of a signed contract which we got a write-off.
Additionally budgetary forces are preventing government from moving forward on historically routine infrastructure advancements which is lessening our add-on services opportunities.
The second factor is lower volumes in some transactional areas.
Given the view that this environment will not change in the near term we will be looking to proactively manage our cost structuring investments to counter these pressures.
Going forward we expect sequential margin improvement in Q4 and for the foreseeable future a Services segment margin range of 10% to 12%.
Let's now turn to the Technology segment.
Technology revenue was down 7% and document-related revenues which includes Document Outsourcing were down 4% at constant currency.
The decline was driven by a 15% equipment revenue decline and a 7% decline in unbundled supplies.
Equipment revenue decline reflects greater uncertainty in the macro environment with increasing pressure in the U.S.
and continued weakness in Europe.
It should also be noted that the trend in revenues is worsened by the prior year tsunami impacts which disrupted supply in Q2 of 2011 and saw recovery in Q3.
We estimate that this specific impact caused revenue deterioration between 1 to 2 points year-over-year in Q3.
Looking at product segments.
We saw good growth in entry installs from new products and relative strengths in SMB.
High end had good color install growth driven primarily by entry production products.
Mix in high end should improve with the recent launches of our latest iGen device and the new Nuvera platform announced at Graph Expo.
And lastly mid-range was weaker reflecting cautionary purchasing trends in large enterprises.
This was the segment where we saw the greatest impact from the tsunami on the prior year compare.
We expect equipment revenue to be pressured again in Q4 and therefore for total revenue to be down mid single digits in Technology.
Segment margin of 10.8% was up 50 basis points from 2011 and reflect a continued good cost and expense control as well as a gain that we realized as a result of the sale of a portion of our finance receivables.
Turning to the Key Metrics slide.
Services signings have been lower this year driven by less mega deals and decision delays as discussed.
But our pipeline remains strong up 9% year-over-year.
And with the improved renewal rate performance we continue to be well positioned for good revenue growth in 2013.
Document Technology metrics remain relatively stable as does technology annuity revenue.
Install growth is good overall.
Machines in field is actually improving and page volumes although a bit weaker driven by Europe are still relatively in check.
The one metric to turn negative was Color revenue largely as a function of the lower equipment revenue and the tsunami compare.
If we now turn to the next slide I will take a moment to review Q3 cash flow.
Cash from operations were the source of $594 million $228 million higher than Q3 of 2011.
Through September cash flow was $807 million $124 million higher than in 2011.
This is in line with our expectations and we remain well on track for $2 billion to $2.3 billion of operating cash flow for the year.
Looking specifically at the drivers in the quarter net income and depreciation were a source of $627 million.
Cash contributions to our global pension plans in Q3 were $73 million which was $152 million lower than 2011 primarily due to the timing cadence this year versus last.
Through September pension contributions were $310 million versus $348 million in 2011.
For the full year they would be about $75 million lower year-over-year driven by the change in funding requirements brought about by recent pension legislation in the U.S.
Working capital including finance receivables and operating leases was essentially neutral to cash in the quarter.
Within this accounts receivable was a $390 million use of cash and finance receivables was a $412 million source.
The driver of this movement was a change in our lease financing strategy which resulted in cash proceeds from a finance receivable sale of $314 million offset for the most part by lower accounts receivable factoring.
In 2012 we have undertaken a thorough review of our leasing strategy which validated for us the operational value and strong financial contribution of our leasing business but also identified some opportunities in our approach relative to the diversity and matching of our funding to our leases.
We have a plan over time to improve the efficiency of our funding and employing a modest amount of finance receivables sales such as we did this quarter is one element of that plan.
Moving down the cash flow.
We spent $140 million on CapEx consistent with our annual forecast of around $500 million and deployed $156 million on 3 acquisitions which support our services expansion and SMB distribution strategies.
Dividends paid were $69 million and we repurchased 361 million of stock for a total of 718 million repurchased through Q3.
On the next slide I will cover in more detail our capital structure and our progress on capital allocation.
Our Q3 ending debt balance of $9.4 billion reflect the typical seasonality of our business.
We expect strong cash generation in Q4 as usual and we continue to plan for $8.6 billion for year-end debt.
The majority of our debt $5.4 billion of the total $9.4 billion debt balance is in support of our financing of Xerox equipment to our customers.
The finance debt is calculated assuming a 7:1 leverage of our finance assets of $6.2 billion.
These finance assets represent committed revenue streams from our customers.
Shifting to capital allocation.
We are well on track to meet all our objectives for the year.
Free cash flow will be in the guidance range of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion and will be deployed in line with our original commitments.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 718 million shares and continue to expect to repurchase 900 million to 1.1 billion for the year.
We will spend $243 million on acquisitions and we expect to be in the $300 million to $400 million range full year.
And dividend payments will be in the $300 million range.
So we are confident to meet our commitments on all fronts.
During our November investor conference we will provide a view of our capital allocation strategy for 2013.
In closing we have seen increasing headwinds in areas more sensitive to the economy and we will continue to adjust our business as appropriate to respond to these pressures while continuing to invest in the growth of our Services business and maintaining leadership in Technology.
With that I will hand it back to Ursula.
Thanks Luca.
Let me quickly wrap up so that we can get to your questions.
Until we finalize our restructuring plans for Q4 our earnings guidance does not include the expected charge.
But it does comprehend our concerns that economic challenges will continue putting additional pressure on the business.
For the fourth quarter we expect adjusted earnings of $0.33 to $0.35 per share.
That brings us to a full year adjusted EPS of $1.07 to $1.09 which is at the low end of our previously stated guidance.
This macro environment calls for resiliency and the ability to quickly adapt to marketplace dynamics.
That's our focus and we remain confident that our strategy is sound and our execution will effectively deliver solid results.
Growth in services increase in annuity revenue market share leadership disciplined cost management and on track performance with past generation and capital allocation.
These are all key drivers to build more value in our business and we look forward to sharing more detail with you at the investor conference next month.
With that I thank you again for joining us today.
As we get to your questions I know you'll have to -- you'll want to dive deeper into trends especially in our Services business.
So as in the past Lynn Blodgett President of Xerox services will also join us for the Q&amp;A session.
Let's open it up for questions and I'll field them and ask Luca and Lynn to chime in as well.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Capital.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess Ursula just to sort of take advantage of having Lynn and then this is probably for you as well.
I guess could you bridge for us the Services operating margin this quarter? What was the impact from the government constraints and I guess the deal that you saw that kind of got shut down? And I guess you also mentioned in some of the press release comments some contracts that were standing up.
Are those -- is that a separate issue from what you referenced? And I have a follow-up if I could.
Okay.
So let me step back and just do a little bit of a Service walk through and then I'll ask Lynn and Luca to add anything if they want to.
So first on a year-over-year basis margins as I said were down about 250 basis points.
This is in line with what we expected pretty much what we expected to happen as we stood up contracts from -- that we signed last year.
So contract ramp is one of the pieces of margin pressure and then what we saw in addition to that which drove sequential margins to be lower than we had expected were 2 unique items.
One is a contract this is the first time that it's ever happened in the business that we can see that we had signed and committed with a state that was defunded after we had started to actually invest in that contract to stand it up.
And we're still working with the state to actually come to some kind of a reasonable conclusion but we took a write-off this quarter with that -- for that expense that was not matched with any revenue.
In addition to that and that's a significant hit but a unique area.
This is something that like I said has never happened before.
And this is not in an area that is what we would call discretionary.
It was not in the Medicaid area or any of the nondiscretionary areas.
This was in a segment of the business that the state actually had an option on and they actually opted to move out.
In addition to that we were seeing kind of across the board not at a very high level but hitting a little bit everywhere is volumes are on transactional.
Some of the transactional portion of our business is a little bit lighter than it would have been in the government alone.
That alone would not have been a big concern.
We would have expected that in a down economy but the combination of those 2 things particularly at the end of the quarter which we couldn't outrun was the reason why we actually had sequential out of -- out-of-the-expected range margin performance in Services.
I don't know if anything else that you want to say Lynn on that.
I think that was well said.
Yes so that's what we saw in margins.
What we expect on a go-forward basis for the remainder of the year and one of the reasons why we're taking the restructuring charge which like I said we'll -- like Luca said we'll spend more time on in the investor conference is to align -- to make sure that we can align our cost on a more cautionary and restricted go-forward spending environment in 2013.
As we do that we'll be able to bring the margins more in line in a tighter range probably not in the 11% to 13% range but probably in a 10% to 12% range we'll be more short of our ability to actually deliver in that range.
And I think there's one other thing.
What we're seeing and as Ursula said Medicaid contract is not a discretionary program and that funding is very rock-solid.
There is some level of discretionary spending associated with those contracts like a system enhancement or whatever.
And what we saw this quarter and what we expect to continue to see given the pressures on states is a little tightening or significant tightening on that discretionary spending.
So what we're doing with the restructuring is to make sure that we are aligning the organization to deal with that new reality and that's where we're moving forward on and confident that we can do it.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a quick follow-up if I could.
Ursula on the December quarter guidance you don't have the charges in there yet.
So should we assume that once you get the charges a handle on the charges I know you guys gave a range on the call.
By my calculations it's something like $0.04 to $0.07 potentially in that range.
Is it possible or is there potential that you could reduce the guidance once you get a better handle on what the charges are? I just want to make sure we understand what the context...
Yes so the answer is yes.
There is more than a likely potential that we will reduce the guidance.
We will not be able to comprehend inside the numbers a range of $0.03 to $0.06 that the $50 million to $100 million currently represent.
We have to work further on this.
I mean we literally are going through the planning process today now and as we speak.
We'll have a lot more information at the investor conference but you should assume that the quarter 4 earnings that I talked about does not include and will be impacted by the restructuring charge.
Your next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
I guess I want to follow up on the Services commentary and just sort of are you seeing revenue resets within contracts or -- I know you talked about lower volumes but I guess I'm still struggling with sort of what has changed with regard to how your contracts are priced or your positions in the last couple of years? And Lynn maybe if you could even give a little bit more perspective from the standpoint of the restructuring.
One of the question I had is basically how much restructuring have you done in the past within ACS? I mean is there sort of low-hanging fruit that will be easy to pick? Or it's always seemed like you've run a pretty tight ship.
So how should we think about that? So let me start -- let me open up with the question about Services resets et cetera.
No we're not seeing a reset in contracts.
We're not seeing contracts that have been signed in states across the board asking for new pricing structure or to open them up not at all.
Actually not at all.
What we are seeing though is contracts are generally made up of 3 different buckets.
One is the basic contract that you saw -- and maybe 2 different markets the basic contract that you sign State of California State of Texas whatever it is structural contracts for example in Medicaid.
That contract is priced and signed and baked into our ongoing operations.
In addition to that generally almost all the time there are additional add-ons that come after that contract is signed.
Once the state knows what they're doing and what we're doing they ask for additional add-on work to upgrade a system to refine a collection process to find fraud whatever the add-ons would be.
What we're seeing is not the core contract changing at all.
That's contractual which is good.
But what we're seeing is those little add-ons that would normally come that are normally baked into how we would actually manage the business are long are harder in coming.
So harder in coming so they're not doing as many of them longer to get if they are doing them it's a lot of work to get them to agree to do them or not happening at all.
And so those -- that's the part that we have to adjust to this normal work that we would have seen outside of the discretionary portion.
We're now going to have to assume that that work for the foreseeable future will be significantly constrained for states and that's what we're actually taking a restructuring for.
As far as the restructuring for services I'll let Lynn go into it but for the company in the last couple of years and as we've taken restructuring it has been focused almost solely on our Technology business and getting our Technology business infrastructure aligned more to the realities of the revenue on a go-forward basis.
So we have not taken since ACS has come on and as part of Xerox restructuring has focused heavily on the Services business.
Yes I think that the issue of us running a relatively tight ship I think that's true.
And I think that's been true for a long time.
This has been a very good exercise.
We don't like the fact that there isn't as much discretionary money there.
But what we have done because of the reality is that we've gone through the organization sort of top to bottom and said "Okay even though we have a good a very good organization what can we do to make it better?" And so we've looked at a very methodical approach to spans some layers and reporting structures and have just gone through and scrubbed the organization.
So when we finish this we will be far more competitive.
We've been able to take out costs in some areas that actually have surprised some of our operating people where they say "We thought we had that thing tuned about as well as we could " and we found by going through this methodical approach that there were things that we could improve upon.
So we think the organization is good but we feel like there are reasonable things that we're doing now that will make us more competitive that will deal with this problem of the discretionary and when that restores which I believe it will in the future we'll be that much more better positioned.
Just one follow-up if I could.
If you could talk a little bit about the trends you're seeing on the Technology side because obviously all the questions have been focused on Services just in terms of demand in Europe and North America and maybe linearity in the quarter.
And then that's my question.
Okay.
Great.
So I'll do this quickly.
What we're seeing is a continued downward pressure on equipment sales in Technology.
The thing that actually we didn't see in quarter 2 that we did see in quarter 3 and we expect to see in quarter 4 and it's not totally that surprising to me when I look out at most of my clients who are reporting around the same kind of environment that we're reporting in is equipment sales in North America across the board in large enterprises in particular in government in particular are definitely stressed.
Europe continues to be very weak.
We're not seeing a lot of uptick there.
And if anything we're seeing a little bit of additional headwind.
DMO developing economies continue to be pretty stable a little bit of weakness but I mean pretty stable.
They're outperforming all of the other regions.
U.S.
is the place that we saw a fairly significant downturn in equipment sales actually.
The equipment sales performance in North America starting in the middle of the quarter and definitely towards the end of the quarter definitely accelerated from a downward perspective.
So we're seeing pressure there.
From a competitive standpoint we're not seeing -- we're seeing the same -- the good news is everybody's facing the same environment so we're not losing ground.
As a matter of fact we still hold the #1 equipment revenue share.
We're still a leader in color et cetera but we're seeing a dampened environment just across the board in general in large enterprises.
SMB a little bit better and large enterprise is definitely pressured.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about the factoring of your finance receivables? It looks like it was responsible for over $300 million of the cash flow.
Is this something you're going to be doing from now on? And I got to say like you're factoring finance receivables it just doesn't seem to be something a company with healthy cash flow would need to do and I was wondering what went into that decision and how you balance that.
Ben I'll answer that.
As I thought I had explained during my remarks the reason why we did that transaction is because we really did a very careful review of our leasing business during the first 6 months of 2012.
And we clearly identified an opportunity to fund this business better and increase the diversity of the sources for that business and do a better matched funding of our leases.
So we implemented this transaction in Q3.
As I explained before as part of this change in strategy we certainly generated cash from the sale of finance receivables.
We generated significantly less cash from the typical factoring that we do.
We at the end of the day when you look at working capital in full it was actually flat.
So we did not generate cash to working capital during the quarter.
And the gain that we realized actually proves the fact that the funding that we were able to obtain on this transaction is significantly better than the funding that we were able to obtain previously.
So as we go forward we will continue to look at different possibilities to optimize the funding of the leasing portfolio and it's certainly not an issue that is around our ability to meet our range in terms of cash flow nothing to do with it.
Research Division</strong> How are we supposed to take these gains? Because you guys can obviously do these transactions.
This one was $0.01.
In addition to the cash flow I mean if services margins continue to be weak is this where we're going to get the earnings power to make up for it? What's the philosophy behind these gains? I mean it's $0.01 this quarter how many is it going to be in upcoming quarters in terms of these gains and is this what we're going to use to offset the Services margin pressures? It's really nothing to do with that.
We're really looking at how we can fund a leasing portfolio that is a very profitable business for us and it's a great way for us to be more competitive as we go to market with our customers.
And so we're going to be looking at ways to reduce the funding cost over time and it will depend on the structures that we're going to be able to find in the market.
They will depend on the geographies that we're going to be looking at.
So we don't have a firm plan around this and it's totally independent from how other segments may be doing or not.
And as you know we report Services performance completely separate from Technology and so we are very focused on the measures that we're willing to take on the Services business.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted a clarification on Services.
What -- so I assume it's California Medicaid and how much more business do you have with California that's at risk? And I guess why wouldn't every other state kind of see what California's doing and do the same thing given these tough times? And then I have a follow-up.
By the way -- yes so I just want to make sure we're very clear.
We did not refer to California Medicaid as the state that had anything to do with the defunding of the contract.
That has nothing to do with California Medicaid nothing at all.
It's really important to understand that.
I don't want California to get pissed at us before...
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm sorry.
That was mentioned as an example I guess? We didn't actually say anything about California but California is a very big contract but they are not defunding anything at all.
They're -- I'll have Lynn...
Yes I think absolutely the defunding was at a different state and...
And it was not a Medicaid contract.
Yes not Medicaid.
It was a project that would be considered as discretionary.
This has never happened to us before and it was a very singular kind of experience or event.
But where you could be thinking about California is that we did say that discretionary what would be systems maintenance some of the sort of discretionary system improvements that we normally see in our Medicaid contracts we're not seeing as much of that and that would apply to the state of California.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I apologize.
Just the question though still is I think has some valid points is that what state was this and could it go into every contract you have with that state? Because I assume that you talk to each other.
Yes the answer is we're still working with the state so I prefer to not actually state what state it was and will not.
And the likelihood of it going into other contracts is -- I mean it's infinitesimally small.
This is a very unique situation with a very unique state with some very unique politics in that state.
So and we are -- by the way we've gone through our contracts.
We're pretty sure that we do not have an issue that is going to spread across the contracts that we have.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So you guys have given us a ton of data here on what's going on in Services but I don't want to beat a dead horse but frankly there's still obviously a lot of confusion here.
And I think I'd like to focus more on how we should think about your government exposure in general.
Government and state and local conditions have been very weak for a while.
This has been a concern for investors for a while and we've seen other companies that have taken hits on in over the past year and past few quarters.
But the argument for Xerox had been that your Services business wasn't as exposed to this dynamic primarily due to the unique nature of the Services model and the types of contracts you had exposure to.
So can you help us understand what really changed in this most recent quarter that suddenly impacted profitability and why it was a surprise? And I guess perhaps helping to answer that can you give us an idea of what percentage of your government-exposed Services business is what you would define as discretionary? I'll have Lynn take it.
Yes I think it would be -- as far as the overall sort of sensitivity to economic conditions and our government portfolio I think it's really a tribute to the resiliency of the portfolio that even though government state governments' budgets have been under pressure as you said for quite some time and we have been able to really continue in the face of that pressure.
What has happened quickly was this defunding of a contract was an event unanticipated event that as we say we've not seen before and don't expect to see that.
And it was not one of our discretionary programs it was in a -- it was in a discretionary program not a nondiscretionary.
And as far as the percentage of revenue in our Government business that is -- that we would consider discretionary this is an estimate on my part but it's certainly less than 10%.
Most of our state work is in -- large bulks of the revenue are in the health care sector and that's generally mandated by some law or some edict and that's where we participate a lot.
California's there Texas is there these kinds of contracts are there.
We do have contracts though smaller percentage of it about 10% 15% of them that are other things.
I mean we do call-center work for people that are not associated with the mandatory side of the business and those would be more susceptible to this kind of work.
But even with that susceptibility we've never seen it happen before.
It turns out that we do have as a business a very strong position in government.
We provide services a lot of them nondiscretionary services to government.
And as governments are pressured we have to pay significantly more attention to that portfolio of business.
No doubt about it.
But as the largest buyer in the United States it's really -- it's very difficult for us to figure out a way to run a successful business without serving them.
And up until this one contract we've served them very well.
And even in this quarter we're serving them very very well.
Revenue is growing.
Our participation in contracts are growing and we just have to make sure that we pay very very close attention to and count on downward pressure from the discretionary portion of the government budget.
And that's what we're doing and that's what we're going to do with our restructuring charge.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to clarify the defunding issue that Ben was asking about you generally view that as a one-time issue but the discretionary portion of the portfolio is the reason why you're adding this restructuring and lowering the targeted margin range for the intermediate term? Absolutely.
And one of the things that we're -- we're just seeing a lot -- the headwind from just a softer economy it's a bad thing to say but it gives you the opportunity to step back and say "Whoa." If this is the trend that we're going to see for quarter 4 and 2013 which is what we're assuming let's go back and let's literally start to scrub everything scrub it down and as we start to see opportunities arise and expansion we will match that expansion but we can't assume that we're going to have a lot more upside in 2013.
Revenue is holding very well in services across the board in all lines.
BPO ITO and in Document Outsourcing we're seeing good revenue.
We're continuing to expand around the world Europe and Latin America.
And we are very very very focused on assuring that the biggest contracts for sure but all of them have the right cost to match the revenue on the minimum level.
So what the restructuring will do is actually take out any service provision that we have any cost that we have associated with an upside we're going to manage these things to be very very tight.
And that will give us some breathing room in a tight economy.
That's the strategy going forward.
It will be interesting to say one last thing on this.
We watched the quarter as the months went by so month 1 in the quarter month 2 in the quarter.
This problem that we had with this particular contract we worked till the last day of the quarter.
Literally we didn't know that we would not end up on the right side of this until the very very end of the quarter and which is which goes to show just how tightly this piece of business actually came forward.
This is not a widespread move that we saw.
We were actually working this till the very end.
Your next question comes from the line of Gaurav Gupta with BMO Capital Markets.
This is Gaurav for Keith Bachman.
I have a couple of questions as well.
I guess the first question is on the services but more on the signings front.
I know this quarter the signings have improved significantly sequentially.
So I guess the question is given all the commentary about the weak economic environment impacting both the government or the commercial side are you seeing any changes in the competitive environment? And what I mean by that is any change in the structuring of the deal or the pricing? And within the category are you seeing more strength in the BPO ITO.
I guess you mentioned the pipeline is up 9% and what does it imply about the margin guidance for the next year? Is it actually more on the 10% side versus the 12%? So there's like 5 questions in there.
I'll start with Luca on -- in the beginning and then we'll kind of walk down the question.
So I think I'll try to give you a few points.
Yes I think the increase in the pipeline represent the fact that we are quite competitive in the marketplace and the fact that there have been decision delays.
So that decisions that we thought would get to a contract signing during the Q2 and also Q3 have been postponed right? So but those are not bids that we have lost to competitors and therefore the pipeline has been growing.
Across the board we see relatively -- of course pricing is -- because of the tight environment pricing has some level of pressure.
We see that probably particularly in Document Outsourcing in our NPS [ph] dates particularly in large enterprises there is more pricing competition than maybe we've seen in the past.
And that is what gets reflected of course on the services margin side.
And that's why it is so important for us to adjust our cost structure accordingly to reflect the existing environment.
And I think the other thing that has impacted us is that we have not had this year the kind of mega deal volume that we had last year.
Last year was a record for us and this year the deals have been typically a little bit smaller.
And if it's not a mega deal it tends to be a little bit shorter.
So the duration has been a little shorter the size is a little smaller and that has had an impact.
One thing that I think we need to make sure people understand is that we talk a lot about renewal rates.
And last quarter there were a lot of questions about it.
Renewal rates are as critical to growth as bookings.
And this year we had higher renewal rates than last year to the tune of about $110 million of additional revenue that we didn't lose if you can think of it that way.
So that essentially offsets a significant decline in bookings.
Now we want bookings to be as high as we can get them but the positive renewal rate will help us with growth even if bookings are a little bit lower than they were last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Alban Gashi with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess just looking again at the services margins that you guys have for the quarter it's about 1.2 percentage points lower sequentially.
And if we look sort of some of the things you outlined in the government as being more onetime or due to the write-offs how do we sort of think of the 1.2% allocated between sort of the more of the transactions and the write-offs and the government versus sort of more longer structural trends within the sector and then sort of how can you guys get back to your historical range of 11% 13% for the segment? That's a good question.
When you think about this write-off that we take we should be thinking it was a number that was over $10 million.
And so when you think about percentage points you would say there was a 120-basis-point decline.
It was possibly half-and-half half of it was kind of write-offs that we had committed to take in the quarter and the rest is this more systemic issue that we need to address through restructuring.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then also last quarter you sort of talked about new business signings as being more of an area that you guys like to focus on.
That was up last quarter and then you also indicated that next quarter should be an increase from the current quarter.
What was it in the current quarter? New business signings in the current quarter were weaker than they were in the previous quarter.
We did have good renewal rates this quarter but new business signings were down.
Signings across the board were down.
And I just want to make sure that you heard what both Luca and Lynn said.
We're not losing these signings to competition.
It's literally they're taking a lot longer to sign now.
So the pipeline is big.
The pipeline grew by about 9% and what we're seeing is people taking a lot more time to -- both large enterprises and government are taking a lot more time to make a decision on a contract.
But they're still up and open and we're not losing them to competition but --  and they should be higher in quarter 4 or this quarter the current quarter.
And they actually were year-over-year as Ursula said they were down.
But sequentially from Q2 to Q3 they were up about 19% and we expect that trend of increasing sequentially to continue in the fourth quarter.
But it is a very very important metric and one that we keep an eye on.
And we want to make sure that if we don't sign that it stays in the pipeline and we don't lose it.
And that's the key thing.
But the trend for contract negotiations and contract just nibbling back and forth is definitely one that's going towards the longer side not towards the shorter side.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's it.
I guess just one final question on the inventory levels on the technology side sort of what are you guys seeing on the channel I guess just globally? Inventory levels were very much in line with our historical ranges.
We didn't have anything particular on the inventory side.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My first question goes back to this problem contract.
I'm curious how this happens.
My understanding that terms and conditions are pretty well set in the original contract.
I'm just wondering around the scrutiny you place on these deals and whether or not you're taking outsized risk to close deals in this tough environment.
The answer to this latter part of the question is we are not.
We do not take outsized risks.
But we are extremely focused on that independent of size.
One of the things that we have learned we learned it from ACS we learned it from our Document Outsourcing business is that Ts and Cs and risk review is a big portion of the management of this kind of a business.
So we are not taking outsized risk.
I cannot get into all of the details.
The more I get into the more specific it will become and the more -- we'll probably have a public disclosure that I don't want to have until we actually manage our way through this with the state.
Suffice it to say that we don't take outsized risk.
It is very very unusual.
We think it is unusual as well which is why we're still working with the state and it is not something that should be considered to be like a natural outcome.
The terms and conditions are generally written in a way that we can actually -- almost always written in a way that we have recourse.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up.
Thinking about the 2013 model you're guiding to about flat revenue in Q4.
Bookings and services have been tracking down north of 20% and you have some tough compares from a revenue standpoint et cetera.
Do you think you can hold revenue flat in 2013 or should we expect revenue to decline? Of course we're going to give you total visibility in mid-November when we have the investor conference.
But at this point of the planning process we feel pretty confident that the revenue dynamics both in services and technology will continue.
And so we feel confident that we're going to be on the positive side of revenue growth getting into 2013.
Again I think it's important to keep in mind revenue -- renewal rates have been good this year we got a strong pipeline and there is very...
Revenue is there.
I mean [indiscernible].
There is money to be allocated to acquisitions as well.
Right exactly.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions if I could.
Just following up on Services.
It's been a pretty hot topic throughout the year in terms of the targets or the pursuit of improved operating margin and also gross margin.
And some of your commentary earlier today seems to almost suggest that some of this perceived weakness here in the third quarter was actually anticipated but we didn't really get that sense in the last earnings call.
So can you kind of help us reconcile that commentary please? Yes please.
So when we had the call the Q2 call we talked about sequentially being more or less flat going into Q3.
And what you will see is that we missed by 120 basis points which as I explained before when you break it down about half of that miss was driven by one-off charges.
And we talked about particularly this defunding of a contract and the rest was related to these additional government pressures around discretionary spending change orders in particular and some lower volumes in some transactional areas.
That's what happened.
I think very clearly we are disappointed with the level Services margins have gone and the miss is about 120 basis points versus is what we told you 3 months ago.
But it's important to note Mark that we had told you that what we are tracking to is we knew that we'll have -- we thought that we would have sequential expansion from quarter 2 to quarter 3 but we knew we would have year-over-year pressure right? So we thought it would be about in the range quarter 2 to quarter 3 about flat but we knew we would have sequential pressure on margins -- I mean a year-over-year pressure on margins and so that part is not changing.
We're not -- we are seeing the year-over-year pressure.
The difference that we saw this quarter which is -- disappointing is a mild word which is angry is the fact that we actually had one contract that we had to literally take a write-off on and that we have some pressure in some of the transactional volume perspective.
If it was only transactional volume I would actually have felt a little bit better about the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
And then my other question is just around the magnitude of the deterioration.
Clearly your tone in your commentary is a lot more marked here in terms of the incremental deterioration since the July earnings call.
I just wanted to get a sense in terms of especially in the U.S.
sector both for government and large enterprise when did this all kind of start to manifest? What month? And then as you went through the rest of the quarter and then into this month of October has it stabilized or is it getting worse? And then kind of a follow-up to that is are you starting to see some customers now as a result of the macro pressures drive to a reduced number of preferred service vendors to try to contain costs? So let me start with the first.
We've seen weakening of the U.S.
economy throughout the quarter.
So in the first I don't know we can like to say the first month or the second month or third month but by the time September rolled around it was very very clear that we were headed south from a U.S.
economy and then it was starting to become clearer even earlier in the quarter.
I've spent a little bit of time with other CEOs and with other business leaders and it is clear to me that we are seeing a dampening of enthusiasm in North America or in the U.S.
for sure.
We see continued weakness in Europe.
So I think that we saw that expand throughout the quarter and we're expecting it to hold for quarter 4.
We're hoping that some settling of the economy comes in the beginning of the year but we're not counting on it.
That's that.
As far as your second part the second part of your question about I think it was are we ready or are we prepared was that? This idea of are customers wanting to consolidate suppliers.
I think that that has been a movement for quite some time.
It's expensive to manage a large portfolio of suppliers.
And so that idea of consolidating to a few larger and smaller number of suppliers has been going on now for 2 or 3 years.
And we haven't seen a marked increase or decline in that.
Your last question comes from the line of Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Ursula a question for you as you kind of lead your company during this challenging economic time.
When you look at the strategy of leading them is there anything if we continue in this challenging state that you're looking at changing or refocusing or anything that's going to impact your cash flows? Because this year was also pretty challenging.
Just kind of as you lead the company can you give us kind of the big picture of what you see for the direction for them? Yes I think that there is a duality here that you -- that I have to employ when I lead a company of this size and the varying nature of the businesses that we're in.
One is to make sure that we're clear about where the opportunities lie and not get ourselves too wrapped up in all of the downside.
We have to know where growth is happening and we have to invest to pursue that growth.
And we know where it's happening.
In Document Technology that's a predefined set of either solution types or client types small or midsized businesses developing economies color we know that.
We have to literally focus on those not get confused about those and move our resourcing our funding our focus away from areas that are not really growing.
That doesn't mean we abandon clients or anything but we actually have to make sure that we weight our investments towards growth.
And on services we have to be literally very methodical and not too impatient which is not a good -- for that -- one of my strengths not too impatient and skip over opportunities.
Our Services business it's relatively new for us.
The good news is we have an experienced team.
One of the first things we have to do was stabilize the business as we brought it on board and start to grow revenue to apply the strength that we had from Xerox to ACS and make revenue growth possible.
We have been able to do that.
We are very confident about our ability to do that.
Second thing we had to do is make sure that we take some of these very large contracts which we have signed more of them than ACS had ever signed before.
We have to actually get those stood up and stabilized move on that path and then we have to drive towards margin expansion.
And that's that and literally really not focus on the other areas of the business.
So disinvest from contract sell off businesses that are not really core to us or profitable.
So focus on opportunities and be kind of brutal and ruthless on things that are not aligned toward growth and not get ourselves too wrapped up in anything too short term or too too long term.
So that's -- and that's the way that you would manage this business and you have to focus on the people and focus on their customers.
If you do those 3 things you got it made in the shade.
It's a difficult economy right now but I think we're doing a pretty good job in navigating our way through it.
Thank you for your time and for all of your interest.
I really do encourage you to spend some time with us at the investor conference at the New York Stock Exchange on November 13 and we'll be able to get into more detail about the business then.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Luca Maestri Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
During the fourth quarter we delivered results that reflect consistent progress on our strategy.
Our shift to a services-led growth portfolio is paying off.
Services revenue now represents 52% of our total revenue and is growing at a steady pace.
Through improved margins our bottom line is benefiting more from this top line growth.
We have a clear understanding of the market dynamics in our Document Technology business.
It remains a very profitable cash-generating operation.
We're maximizing its profit by lowering the cost base and shifting investments to focused areas of growth.
And we're generating strong operating cash flow $2.6 billion in 2012.
This gives us flexibility to invest for growth and build shareholder value.
We bought back more than $1 billion in Xerox stock in 2012 and share repurchase will remain part of our balanced approach to capital allocation.
Xerox is a company that is going through a seismic transformation.
2012 was a year of alignment.
Getting our costs aligned with our services-focused business model getting our investments aligned with key priorities getting our diverse portfolio aligned with market opportunities and getting our operations aligned to address these opportunities.
We're doing this through a customer-centric approach that takes full advantage of our brand innovation and global scale.
I feel good about our progress and I am confident that we will deliver strong results in 2013.
Here is a closer look at Q4 results.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.30.
As planned adjusted earnings include $0.05 of restructuring.
Adjusted EPS exclude $0.04 related to amortization of intangibles resulting in GAAP EPS of $0.26.
Total revenue of $5.9 billion was down 1% or flat in constant currency.
Growth came from our Services business up 7% in the quarter and reflecting solid results across the board.
Business Process Outsourcing revenue grew 8%.
IT Outsourcing was up 15% and Document Outsourcing was up 2%.
Segment margin also improved in Services.
At 11.2% Services margin was up 90 basis points.
This is very good progress and puts our margins right in the range of our expectations.
Signings in Q4 were lower year-over-year.
With the nature of our business any 90-day cycle will bring ups and downs especially factoring in prior year compares and long purchasing cycles.
Considering the nearly $11 billion in total business signings during 2012 I remain confident that our pace of signings to date aligns well with our future revenue growth expectations.
In our Document Technology business revenue declined 8%.
We made disciplined decisions in 2012 to be conservative in how we manage this business.
Due to the economic uncertainty across most regions we put our focus on reducing the cost base while expanding distribution through indirect channels.
As a result segment margin in Document Technology improved.
At 12.3% it's well above our target range and gives us flexibility to make important investments this year.
We're about to launch a refresh of products in the first quarter.
And we're ramping up marketing investments while broadening our channel partnerships positioning us better to pursue the growth opportunities in small and midsized businesses.
As a result we expect to see improving trends in install level and equipment sale revenue this year.
Operating margin in the fourth quarter improved 30 basis points to 10.3%.
Gross margin was 31.5%.
Selling administrative and general expenses were down $56 million and represents 18.5% of revenue.
We generated $1.8 billion in cash from operations during the fourth quarter $2.6 billion for the year including the sale of certain finance receivables and we allocated $334 million of that quarterly cash to buy back shares.
The fundamentals of our strategy are delivering as expected.
We're managing our services business for growth.
In Document Technology we're maintaining leadership in the profitable growth segments while benefiting from the overall profitability of this mature business.
As a result Services now represents 52% of our total revenue up from 48% just one year ago.
This mix shift will continue with Services growing to 2/3 of our revenue by 2017.
That growth then fuels our annuity stream which is now 83% of our total revenue.
It's up 3% in constant currency during the quarter.
And during 2012 we generated $18.9 billion in recurring revenue.
Equipment sales are becoming a much smaller percentage of our business down 13% this quarter they are the most impacted by economic and industry trends.
We expect the equipment sales trends to improve modestly this year.
We're launching new products and we're targeting investments that will boost our share of the digital color and SMB markets.
Summing up the quarter the strong growth in Services and consistent profitability of our Document Technology business generated significant operating cash flow and contributed to earnings that met our expectations.
Before I turn it over to Luca let me take a moment to offer my thanks to him.
As you know Luca is leaving Xerox on February 28.
He's been a fantastic business partner and is a steadfast supporter of our business strategy.
I know his contributions to Xerox will serve his successor our company and our shareholders well for a long term.
Thank you Luca.
Thank you Ursula for the very kind words and good morning everyone.
I will begin by reviewing earnings and then we'll cover our 2 segments cash flow and capital allocation.
During the quarter and also for the full year revenue was flat at constant currency.
We continue to see good growth in Services up 7% in Q4 and as Ursula said now representing 52% of total revenue while Technology remains pressured and was down 8%.
An area of focus for us during Q4 was Services margin and we made really good progress.
This improvement in Services also drove overall margin improvement.
In total operating margin at 10.3% was up 30 basis points year-over-year.
Gross margins were lower because of the higher mix of Services revenue but this was more than offset by continued improvement in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D.
As planned restructuring in the quarter was higher year-over-year and came in at $93 million as we initiated actions to improve the Services cost structure and maintained Technology profitability.
For the year restructuring of $153 million was $120 million higher than in 2011.
The 2012 actions have been taken in order to position us for margin improvement in 2013 and we will continue to manage our cost base proactively going forward with ongoing modest restructuring initiatives.
Equity income grew $9 million driven by profit growth at Fuji Xerox and adjusted tax rate was 23% in the quarter lower by about 3 percentage points year-over-year.
Adjusted EPS of $0.30 in Q4 was lower in 2011 by $0.03 and full year adjusted EPS of $1.03 was lower by $0.05.
These results reflect the negative impact of the higher restructuring in 2012 and the pension curtailment gain of $107 million which we recognized in Q4 of 2011.
Moving on to the Services segment.
Revenue growth came in at 7% in Q4 BPO was up 8% ITO was up 15% and Document Outsourcing up 2%.
We are seeing steady growth in BPO all year.
And in Q4 we had strong results in customer care state government and transportation.
ITO revenue really accelerated this quarter as we began to see the full benefits from the very strong 2011 signings.
Document Outsourcing growth was somewhat lower in Q4 impacted by some decision delays in the enterprise space.
Signings in the quarter were lower year-over-year.
This was fully expected as ITO had 2 megadeals in 2011 that made the compare extremely challenging.
BPO and Document Outsourcing signings were essentially flat year-over-year.
And in total Q4 had the highest new business signings of the year from an annual recurring revenue perspective.
The average contract length was approximately 3 years for BPO and ITO considerably lower than our historical average of approximately 5 years and dampened the signings number when looking at total contract value.
The BPO/ITO renewal rate in Q4 was below target of 79% and reflected some timing factors and price discipline.
For the year however renewal rate was 85% which is in our target range and 5 points higher than 2011.
We remain confident that we will continue to see mid to high single-digit Services revenue growth in 2013.
As we discussed at our investor conference our recurring revenue model provides us with good line of sight to expected revenues.
And even though overall signings this year have been lower we have achieved what we expected from new business signings and renewal rates in order to support our growth plans going forward.
Turning to margins.
Services segment margin of 11.2% increased 90 basis points year-over-year and 180 basis points sequentially ahead of our expectations.
This sequential margin increase was driven by the initial benefit from our cost actions the absence of negative one-offs improvements in Document Outsourcing and some level of seasonality.
Year-over-year the improvement came mainly from Document Outsourcing where we benefited from lower SG&amp;A.
We also had good margin improvement in a number of BPO lines of business including state government services customer care and transportation.
We continue to expect to be in the 10% to 12% range for the full year and we expect Q1 margin to be lower than Q4 but modestly better on a year-over-year basis.
So overall a good quarter for Services with welcome progress on margins and continued strong revenue growth which positions us well as we enter 2013.
Let's now turn to the Technology segment.
Technology revenue was down 8%.
Revenue decline continue to be driven by lower equipment revenue which was down 14% and was impacted by the soft macro environment and continued focus on segment profitability.
As we look ahead we have a significant mid-range and entry production color product announcement coming next month and we fully expect activity and equipment revenue to show improving trends as we move through the year.
In terms of product segments good growth continued in entry A4 products as more purchases are moving to multifunction devices in this segment.
Mid-range activity was down in the quarter partially because the upcoming product launches are centered around this category.
And high end continued to show good color growth driven by entry production and iGen which offsets the secular decline in black-and-white.
Segment margin of 12.3% was up 60 basis points from 2011 well above our target range reflecting cost and expense control and a gain that we realized as a result of the sale of a portion of our finance receivables.
As we transition into 2013 we believe we have set reasonable expectations for Technology with mid-single-digits revenue declines and margins within our target range of 9% to 11%.
We believe that our opportunities to support these objectives including new product launches recent favorable currency trends and easier compares in Europe.
Turning to the key metrics slide.
I've already commented on much of this data.
But in summary total Services signings for the year had been clearly lower but the underlying trends are more positive than the decline would imply.
We actually signed 7% more deals in BPO and ITO than in 2011 but there were fewer megadeals and contract lengths were shorter.
This combined with lower renewal opportunities resulted in lower signings.
However as explained before we did meet the new business annual revenue and renewal rate targets needed to support our 2013 revenue plans and our pipeline remains very strong and it is up 6% year-over-year.
Document Technology metrics remain relatively stable in line with annuity revenue.
Install growth was softer in the quarter but should improve with the new product launches.
MIF continues to grow and page volumes are still relatively in check.
Color revenue was weak driven by lower equipment revenue mix.
If we now turn to the next slide I will take a moment to review cash flow.
Cash from operations in Q4 was strong at $1.8 billion in line with seasonality and resulted in $2.6 billion for the full year.
This exceeded our guidance of $2 billion to $2.3 billion due to an additional finance receivables sale in Q4 which contributed a net $269 million to cash flow when considering the natural runoff of the sold receivables.
Cash contributions to our global pension plans were $54 million in Q4 $364 million full year a $62 million reduction versus 2011.
We expect pension contributions in 2013 to be more than $100 million lower than in 2012 driven by the change in funding requirements brought about by recent pension legislation in the U.S.
Working capital was a significant contribution to cash in the quarter in line with usual seasonality.
In particular inventory was a source of $128 million for the quarter and flat for the year.
Accounts payable was a source of $346 million in the quarter and a use of $86 million for the year and accounts receivable was a source of $365 million in Q4 and a use of $306 million for the year which was $390 million worse year-over-year.
This reflects lower contribution from factoring compared to 2011 and growth in our Services business.
Finance receivables generated $947 million in 2012.
$580 million of this contribution comes from the 2 finance receivables sales that we did in the year one in Q3 and one in Q4.
The remaining $367 million comes from the runoff of our finance portfolio due to the lower equipment revenue.
We spent $513 million on CapEx for the year which is fully in line with our guidance and we deployed $276 million towards acquisitions.
Dividends paid were $255 million for the year and we repurchased 1 050 000 000 of stock during the year.
For 2013 we continue to expect $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion in cash flow from operations.
We expect lower pension funding requirements.
But finance receivables will be a lower contributor to cash by approximately $500 million due to fewer collections associated with the 2012 finance receivables sales and a lower natural runoff of the portfolio given our expectation of better equipment activity.
We expect the rest of working capital to be essentially flat year-over-year.
The next slide covers in more detail our capital structure and capital allocations plan.
We ended the year with $8.5 billion in debt about $100 million lower than planned.
Our cash ending balance was over $1.2 billion $344 million higher than at the end of 2011.
The greater debt reduction and higher cash balance from the strong cash flow in Q4 position us well to meet our capital structure objectives for 2013 which include retiring the $400 million senior note that comes due in May.
Turning to capital allocation.
We met our 2012 objectives with the largest portion of our cash flow going to share repurchase.
For the year we spent $1 050 000 000 on the repurchase of 146 million shares reducing shares by 114 million on a net basis.
This represents a 9% net reduction in common shares outstanding for the year.
We are maintaining the 2013 capital allocation guidance that was provided at the investor conference in November which includes at least $400 million in debt reduction; up to $500 million in acquisitions which will be largely focused on the Services business; dividend payments of $300 million which reflects the planned 35% dividend increase beginning in April; and share repurchases of at least $400 million.
So in conclusion overall a very good quarter across the board.
I have great confidence great confidence that Xerox is very well positioned both strategically and financially to take advantage of the growth opportunities in Services and to strengthen our leadership position in Technology during 2013.
With that I will hand it back to Ursula.
2012 presented its share of challenges.
Thank you Luca.
But it also gave us an opportunity to refine our business model and improve operational efficiency all while growing our Services business.
This progress gives me confidence in our ability to deliver a strong 2013.
For the first quarter we expect adjusted earnings of $0.23 to $0.25 per share.
Our guidance for the full year remains unchanged.
We expect adjusted EPS of $1.09 to $1.15 and our strategy remains very sound.
We're shifting to a Services-led growth portfolio.
You see it in our results every quarter.
We're maintaining our leadership in Document Technology product and platform news next month will demonstrate our commitment to this profitable business.
With improving margins cost controls and steady growth we'll consistently expand earnings and generate strong cash.
With that we'll continue to take a very balanced approach to our capital allocation which creates value for our shareholders.
That's a good place for me to end.
Before we open it up for questions let me turn it over to Jim Lesko Head of Investor Relations.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Luca today is Lynn Blodgett Head of Xerox Services.
Also let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
It provides more financial details to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the lines for questions now.
Our first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross of Cross Research.
Ursula and Lynn can you talk a bit about -- bit more about the Services business sort of where you think you are with restructuring maybe some comments about your conservative outlook on deal pricing? And then I'm curious especially Lynn given your history if you think the trend of the lack of megadeals is something that is just sort of cyclical or is this a change in how customers are thinking about things? And then I have a follow-up on Technology.
Thanks Shannon.
As far as the restructuring activity we made some good progress in the fourth quarter.
We're not finished as we said in the investor conference.
We're really focused on cost.
We have a great revenue model and just need to make sure that our costs stay in line.
So we have more work to do and we'll see that through the balance of 2013.
But we made really good progress in this quarter.
As far as deal pricing there's always downward pressure on deals.
That's just part of our model.
We know that when we come up for renewal or when we're bidding a new deal that the pricing will be down.
And these percentages that we have seen in the past aren't changing dramatically.
So there hasn't been a significant change there.
As far as megadeals we didn't see -- last year we had 8 megadeals and -- excuse me in 2011 we had 8 megadeals.
In 2012 we had 3 and that was a significant change primarily in the ITO business as Ursula pointed out.
But we are now seeing megadeals in the pipeline.
Last year was -- it was a little bit of an anomaly and they're starting to materialize.
So we expect that we'll see strong bookings growth next year where we expect to see that in the -- where we -- we return to plus 10% kind of bookings growth.
So we're optimistic about that and some of that will be driven because we'll have more megadeals.
Okay great.
And then Ursula if you could just talk a little bit on the Technology side.
I'm curious as to what you're sort of thinking about for 2013 in terms of competition and especially when you factor in what's going on with the yen.
Do you anticipate more competitive environment? I know several of the competitors have launches coming.
You guys have a launch coming.
Just if you could give any color on sort of how you think the world shapes up especially given the yen depreciation? Yes.
I think our position for 2013 is very strong.
We spent 2012 in a very methodical way assuring that we positioned ourselves for what we saw were growth areas in this business: color SMB developing economies et cetera.
So we managed our cost base.
We were very conservative about how we went after deals given that our product portfolio wasn't refreshed.
We positioned ourselves for 2013 refresh which will come next month.
And so I'm actually feeling pretty good about our ability to meet our expectations improving activity levels stabilizing of revenue from an equipment sales perspective and total perspective and I think that we're positioned well against the competition.
But our offering that we'll offer that we'll launch next month are not just about products.
They're also about the software and services surrounding the products positioning us well to expand our Document Outsourcing business as well.
So I think that it will be a reasonable year and we're positioned well against the competition.
As far as the yen goes the good news about the yen is that it gives us a little bit of tailwind but it also gives our competitors tailwind.
So we're going to have to pay attention in the marketplace.
We have to price to win where it's smart for us to go after it.
We have a big focus on profitability.
We have -- most of the yen benefit for us because we hedge comes in the latter half of the year.
But we'll keep an eye on the marketplace and make sure that we are aggressive and win where it's good for us to win.
Our next question comes from Keith Bachman of Bank of Montréal.
Ursula I wanted to ask you about leadership and I'll frame it in 2 different ways.
One how are you thinking about filling the very big shoes of Luca in particular the background that you're looking for? And I'm not necessarily looking for internal versus external but skill sets particularly as you think about the benchmark of growth is Services.
And then two where do you think the leadership -- do you think you need more depth in Services given relative inconsistency in performance since the addition of ACS? Thank you Keith.
So first on the CFO replacement.
You are correct that the next CFO has some pretty big shoes to fill.
Interestingly enough Luca had some big shoes to fill as well.
And I am very very confident that we will find a more than adequate replacement for Luca very confident.
The search has already started.
I am in some ways overwhelmed with the number of candidates that I have to look through.
So I think that we'll end up in a good place in a very good pace with the CFO.
What I'm looking for is someone who has global experience someone who's strong fairly aggressive in their approach.
We have a strategy.
It is not going to change because Luca left.
So I want somebody who can actually implement the strategy that we have in place and then think on a go-forward basis  of some of the new things that we have to do.
And I guess just to tease it out for a second or so would you tilt towards somebody with services experience given the importance over the next 3 years of Services to Xerox? Yes.
As we look forward we're looking for Luca we wanted someone who had some background in a global -- large global complex business but also someone who had some services experience.
So the answer is yes.
But it won't be only a services play.
We have a big business to run.
It is all around the world and I need someone who can actually play well and understand well all of those markets.
I'm confident that we'll get somebody very very good.
As far as leadership in general whenever we replace a leader we -- I look for certain general tendencies.
I need someone who is extremely flexible but strong someone who actually can implement well.
I need an operator in the business.
And someone who is prepared for the way that the business is going on a go-forward basis.
And that obviously means people who have more history or knowledge about services.
So the answer to your general leadership question has nothing to do with inconsistency of performance it has to do with future growth and how I see the business going on a go-forward basis.
So I need people who have good services knowledge and background and that's what I'll look for across the board when we hire.
Okay.
Well let me just sneak in a follow-up and then I'll cede the floor.
Just on bookings Lynn mentioned that you thought Services bookings would be a positive number in calendar year '13 -- bookings growth I should say.
Is that confidence driven by the fact of the pipeline or the compares or just a little bit more on why you think the bookings will turn the corner here from a negative to the positive? Let me start and this is probably a question that will happen -- a lot of people probably have so we'll spend a little bit more time on this one.
It turns out that in 2011 we signed in our ITO business an amazing amount of business.
If you look at the absolute number we actually doubled a normal signing year in 2011.
So the total TCV in '11 was about $3.5 billion and a normal year would be about $3 billion in ITO.
This is in ITO.
Obviously the rest of the business is bigger.
In 2012 we went back to a normal pace and a normal growth level.
So what we're saying is that we are absolutely confident very confident based on the pipeline based on the billings based on everything that we will be able to grow over 2012 in ITO and therefore in the total Services business on a TCV basis.
So I want us -- it's interesting when you look at this this is not a point of weakness.
We had a phenomenal year in one line of business and a very good year in the rest of the businesses in 2011.
2012 is back to a normal growth cycle for us.
In 2013 we'll be back to that again.
So yes so that's the short of it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about cash flow for next year.
Your expectation for share repurchases goes down quite a bit.
Is there any upside to that $400 million? And how are you looking at that? Is that something that -- it is dependent on who you -- who succeeds Luca? Is there -- are there any puts and takes on how you look at the flexibility of that number? And then I have a follow-up.
First of all Luca will answer the rest but it has nothing to do with who succeeds Luca.
As I said earlier in answering the CFO question we have a strategy and the strategy has been embedded across the management team.
We spent a lot of time on it and so I am -- it is independent of the individual that sits in the chair.
And Luca why don't you...
With those who argue it's a smart strategy so I hope it doesn't change.
And on the numbers $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion it's the same number that we mentioned in November Ben.
It's a bit lower than this year because we're going to have some positives it's -- the pension contributions are positives.
And obviously earnings are going to be a bit positive because your -- the EPS number is high.
The effect of the finance receivables will -- they're not going to be the same level of contribution that we had in 2012 for obvious reasons.
But -- so we were confident with the range $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion.
In terms of capital allocation we talked in November about having some level of flexibility in the numbers to start the year and that's why we said at least -- so much for repurchase we said at least $400 million for repurchase at least $400 million for debt.
That level of flexibility had increased a bit because cash flow was so strong in Q4.
So we come in with a bit more flexibility.
And how much we're going to dial up repurchase will depend frankly on 2 factors: One earnings as we go through the year and if earnings are strong there is an opportunity; and we always watch interest rates because they drive discount rate for the pension calculation right? But yes there is a bit of flexibility and it's increased a bit with Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then just my follow-up as another way of asking the Services question.
With trailing 12-month bookings down 26% you've said that you can still grow and hit your targets for revenue growth for 2013.
Another company we cover IBM had bookings down 2% and they're looking for services growth next year of flat and that obviously makes intuitive sense to us just given where bookings were the year before.
It's a much different business.
But when we hear bookings down 26% and then hear revenues are going to be 7% or so growth begs the question just can you give us a little bit more math? Is there -- for example IBM again they kind of give you the 70% of their base contracts that they know they have and the revenue growth off of that and then that kind of thing.
Can you just give us a little more support so that we can go from down 25% to plus 7%.
Is it duration? And do you actually have that 70% visibility and then you know the duration et cetera? So that we know you can do it based on the bookings trends.
Yes.
Absolutely Ben.
The things that enter into the math are the bookings number as you pointed out.
And as Ursula said this year was much more the kind of a normal year especially in the ITO business.
So we have a threshold that we -- that we use to calculate the -- sort of our minimum in order to hit the growth targets that we have and we met that number.
The second piece that factors into the growth is the renewal rate.
And our renewals for the year were 85% which is 5% higher than they were in 2011.
If you take the positive impact of the higher renewal rate it offsets pretty close the lower bookings.
Does that make sense? They both contribute.
And we also have a higher recurring revenue rate than I think what you were talking about.
Most of -- ours is about 85% so that helps us in terms of sort of the predictability of the revenue stream.
Research Division</strong> Can I just sneak in one more? And I'm done.
On supplies what trends are you seeing there for channel inventory and the trends into '13? Yes.
So we have -- '12 was I think a fairly typical year.
When we talk about supplies Ben we talk about unbundled supplies.
It's a small percentage of our total revenue.
It's less than $2 billion a year.
We've seen a development on supplies which is very very consistent with annuity revenue in general in 2013 -- in 2012 so '12 was down about 3%.
We expect for 2013 something in the mid-single-digit decline for supply in line with the overall Technology business.
So again also on supplies we do not have unreasonable expectations as we enter the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to kind of follow on on the previous question line of thought around just the signings velocity.
Was 2011 really just kind of the big peak if you will or everything come together in terms of ACS Xerox synergies and that's as good as it gets? Just trying to understand why we've never really seen the follow-through in terms of the potential cross-pollination.
Yes.
2011 was a good year but you are seeing the follow-through.
First of all 2011 in one line of business in the ITO line of business was an exceptional year.
We are seeing growth and we'll continue to see growth in 2013 in BPO as well and Document Outsourcing is doing its normal thing.
So this is not the end of the line by any stretch of the imagination.
It's kind of hard to downplay our 2011 which was good.
But this is -- we continue to sign.
We continue to sell.
We continue to cross-pollinate.
We continue to get new business.
We had 7% more deals signed in 2012 than we did in 2011.
Contract length was a little bit shorter and there were fewer megadeals.
But our signings velocity continues and we have 7% more revenue in -- so the business is -- this is not the end of the line by any stretch of the imagination.
It's performing fairly well.
The math that Lynn just brought you through which is a math of renewals a math of signings we have a strong pipeline that continues to just keep it -- it's up 6% shows and should give some confidence that the revenue numbers that we have -- we take into account price declines everything the revenue numbers that we have for 2013 which is mid- to high-single-digit revenue growth for our Services business is pretty solid.
If I can just add also.
The number -- bear in mind too that the number that we give is the annual recurring revenue number.
And many times I think people get confused with the TCV.
But this is an annual recurring revenue number and so it's very predictable.
The math is easy to calculate and we feel comfortable.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up if I could when I hear about shorter-term contracts it does start to beg the question are we going to see a heightened level of pricing pressures down the road.
If the contracts are shorter and they're going to be coming up for renewal faster maybe there's more and more vendors fighting for less and less business.
I mean how should we think about that pricing slope over time? Is it going to start to get more severe? I actually -- I'll take it.
The contract length on average has gone from 5 years to 3 years first of all.
Shorter is not a year.
Shorter is 3 years.
Absolutely you will see at the end of 3 years people competing for the contracts and they would have normally have competed at the end of 5 years.
And price as Lynn said is something that is clearly a part of the negotiation when you come up for renewal.
So the answer is -- will we see pressure at 3 years? The answer is yes.
One of the questions and drives that we have one of the things I push Lynn for is we interact with clients in a way that penetrates the account and then expands our position in the account.
We intend to continue to do that.
It's proven successful for us in the past and it will prove successful I think in the future.
The shorter contract and less megadeals is a sign of the times today.
We had significant pressure in both government and large enterprises given a very weak macroeconomic environment.
That is what I Xerox Corporation and all our vendors are going to deal with.
We'll deal in the marketplace to be very aggressive and continue to win I think like we win now.
[indiscernible] Just this one I'd just cover.
The other thing is that many of the lines of business customer care for example a 3-year contract life is the normal contract life.
And if we don't sign as many ITO deals which are longer typically and megadeals which are longer that doesn't mean that the entire portfolio is shrinking in contract length.
The other factor is that the discounts that we are required to give at the -- at renewal time tend to be driven by an average annual discount rate.
So if we have a 5-year contract you can take what that annual discount rate is times 5.
If it's a 3-year contract you times it by 3.
So the net overall discount is not significantly different and we have a large part of our portfolio you're seeing it is a 3-year deal.
It's what -- and we'll build around that.
So I wouldn't say that just because we don't have as many 5-year ITO deals or megadeals that the discounting pressure is going to be significantly different.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
If I could -- real quickly just shifting gears Ursula I have to say as an observer you really sound pumped up today in your cadence.
Everything sounds very positive but yet your guidance isn't changing for 2013.
Is that just measured conservatism just because it's early in the year and you want to see how these new products roll out next month? I do -- you sound a lot more confident and upbeat versus the prior few calls.
I am upbeat I'm hoping in every call.
I'm happy I sound better today than I did in the past.
I am very confident in the guidance that we have.
I -- we've studied the business a lot.
We're kind of on a cadence now that is a good rhythm.
And so yes I'm confident in what we've laid out for 2013.
This is not going to be a walk in the park.
The environment hasn't changed that dramatically to make it that much better around the world.
But I think that we know how to operate it and I think I know we know how to operate it.
So yes I'm confident.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Shope from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So you guys obviously had a nice recovery here in the Services margin and I think you laid out the drivers there pretty clearly.
Could you just help us understand how we should think about the quarterly swing factors here throughout the year and basically how we should think about the overall drivers of the seasonality from a margin perspective within this range you've provided for the year? Yes.
So Bill we said margin range 10% to 12% for Services.
Clearly you know that from a seasonality perspective Q1 and Q3 are lower than Q2 and Q4 particularly in Document Outsourcing where we got more fixed costs attached to the business.
For -- and we've launched a number of restructuring actions.
They will progress and provide more and more benefit as we go through the year so you should be thinking of about it in terms of Services margins growing sequentially from Q1 forward.
And clearly Q1 lower than the Q4 that we just had just because of seasonality and -- but we expect already for Q1 improvement year-over-year.
I think that should give you enough.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then you mentioned hitting the -- your targeted renewal rate range for the year.
Can you talk about the renewal rate dynamics exiting the year again sort of the unusual seasonal aspects to consider there? And then how you're thinking about your renewal rate management plans going into next year given obviously we don't want to see too many surprises there.
Yes.
The renewal rates are -- they're pretty sensitive and the sensitivity is driven by the timing of particular renewals and here's why.
When we calculate the renewal rate we look at the total universe to be renewed and then take what percentage of that was renewed.
If you have a large contract that you expect to renew that happens to slip from one quarter to the next quarter that lowers the overall number and therefore a loss has a different and dramatic impact.
Hopefully that makes sense.
Yes.
And so in the fourth quarter we had a couple of deals that we had expected to renew that slipped into the -- we believe that will happen in the first quarter.
We're very very focused on -- we know what those renewals are.
We're very very focused on winning those renewals and that's why we're not overly concerned about.
We're confident that our renewal rate for 2013 will be in the range.
And -- but we can't call with absolute precision what happens from quarter-to-quarter because the timing of -- an individual customer we can really believe that we're going to get them signed and they can shift one week and that can make a big difference in the renewal rate.
So that's why we're not overly concerned about it.
We don't see a drastic fall off in renewals.
Most of this is timing.
What we -- I mean what we really like is the fact that for the year we were 5 points up in renewal and that is very very important for revenue growth going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A quick question is in your prepared comments you mentioned about 2013 a much more healthier year for signings and things.
Can you help us better understand about -- are these -- that you're already talking with companies and they're just really putting off the formal proposal and just has  yet to happen? Or is it any type of real cement or granularity behind that as opposed to just hoping for a bigger market? And indeed there's some slip from Q4 into Q1 or just kind of help us understand those dynamics.
Right.
So it's a little bit of all that you said which I know you really don't like that answer but it is true.
Some of these -- some of the signings are things that we know.
We're already engaged with clients and we're working through the details of the engagement.
We don't -- until we get them I can't count them.
And I don't actually feel comfortable until we actually get the signing.
But yes some of it is that.
Some of it is we have some lines of business state transportation that has -- and customer care that have good offers out and are engaging clients.
Some of it is yet to come.
And our pipeline grew in 2012 by 6% so we had -- so we have more in the hopper more engagements in the hopper.
It's kind of a normal year.
2013 we're viewing as a normal year.
Growth across the portfolios nothing too unusual leveraging the synergies of having our 2 companies together and therefore growing in a fairly normal range.
Nothing too exciting or too special but still good but very good.
I think the one shift that we've seen that's different that was the same in '11 different in '12 is the appearance of more megadeals as we said and we have more of those in the pipeline now than we did halfway through 2012 for example.
Research Division</strong> Was there any slipping from Q4 to Q1? Were there any -- excuse me? Slipping.
Research Division</strong> Slipping of deals? Oh for sure for sure.
Lynn talked about it a little bit.
There were a couple of deals that we thought we would be able to ink in Q4.
These are generally renewals.
These are -- well not general they are generally renewals and we -- they slipped into Q1 or whenever the customer decides to sign it.
Oftentimes that's actually not bad news for us.
If you can keep the client with the same terms and conditions because as you know when you renew you usually lower cost a little bit -- price a little bit.
It's not a bad thing to actually have it moved but we would prefer to have them signed but we have to wait for the customer.
We can't force them.
They're -- sometimes they're less comfortable or want to delay.
Nothing unusual though.
And I think on the bookings on the new business side we do have deals that slip.
They always slip.
And then the next quarter some slip from the next quarter.
So I'm waiting for the day when everything that's slipped from the previous quarter gets closed in this quarter and we have no slips to the next quarter.
But yes we had a couple of deals and things were a little lighter than we expected because of that.
But nothing that was grossly out of order.
Our next question comes from Chris Whitmore of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to approach the bookings maybe from a little bit of a different angle and specifically wanted to ask about BPO bookings.
If I look at the trend line in BPO bookings over the past couple of years it's been down 2 years in a row from fiscal year '10 $10 billion to $6 billion in fiscal year '12 understanding that ITO was strong et cetera and contract durations are changing.
But nonetheless I'm trying to understand what are the implications for the mix in your revenue as you roll forward into fiscal '13 between BPO ITO and Document Outsourcing.
Do you expect a significant change in mix or rates of growth between the segments? And does that have implications on margins? Yes.
I think that right now we're expecting that ITO -- because of the strong bookings from 2011 ITO is going to continue to grow and its growth rate will be a few points higher than the BPO rate.
But BPO is a much larger business than the ITO business.
So don't -- just don't do direct math to say that's going to -- that's going to necessarily drastically changed the overall growth rate.
But BPO is if you think about it in the last year governments have been under extreme pressure.
I mean it's been as tough a time for states and local entities as I can certainly remember.
And so some deals and BPO government deals are almost -- not always but 80% of them are BPO there's been a lot of pressure.
And we're seeing as Ursula mentioned some lightening of that pressure right? We're not ready to say that it's drastically changed but we're starting to see a little bit of lightening there.
So we're hopeful that that will help to spur BPO booking.
I think most of the downward pressure that you've seen over the last couple of years has really been driven through our -- through the various aspects of the government business and we're seeing some improvement there.
Research Division</strong> Does that changing mix impact the profitability? In other words are ITO margins vastly different than BPO? ITO margins are slightly lower than average.
We talked about it in the past.
But really it's not a massive shift.
Keep in mind that revenue growth which then drives margins right was significantly higher in BPO in 2012 than the other lines.
And so I don't see much of a mix impact from the increased growth in ITO.
It's extremely manageable.
Our next question comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just have a question really on the direction of Services margins and more about the cost cutting that you guys are doing.
In the event that let's say this is a more secular drive towards smaller deal sizes do you have to do more restructuring to hit your margin targets? Don't you see it that way? And could you remind us of what further cost downs we might see in that business segment as we go through 2013? Yes.
The restructuring efforts as we said at the beginning are -- we made some good progress in the fourth quarter.
We're just -- we're not through by any stretch and we will continue to do things that we think are prudent and as aggressive as we think are prudent over 2013.
The other side of the coin relative to the deal size is that typically smaller deals have slightly larger -- or slightly higher margins.
So even though the deal size may be coming down that is not a downward pressure on margins.
That's actually -- that actually helps lift them a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just on that point though like how much more in terms of dollar cost would you say year-over-year you've got to yet reduce in '13? Could you give us a number around that? I think what we would like to do is an amount similar to the amount that we did in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the just a question for -- on acquisitions.
On the $500 million that you might spend is that a very firm number? Or is there a chance for example you get the end of this year and you spend $100 million the rest can be put into buyback for shareholders? Or how should we think about how firm that number is? Can you repeat the question? What number are you referring to? Research Division</strong> I'm referring to the amount that you might spend on acquisitions this year how firm $400 million $500 million is and whether you could actually use that for further distribution to shareholders.
I think you need to step back for a second and think about our strategy.
And really acquisition we always said is an important part of our strategy and part of the growth that we're going to be experiencing in Services will be driven by acquisitions.
We said up to $500 million.
It really will depend on the type of companies that we -- that are available.
And so I would say the flexibility that we have it's more around the fact that we've got good cash generation from Q4 some level of flexibility.
And if earnings progress the way we expect them to progress there will be an opportunity to do both to do more repurchase and to stick to our acquisition number.
Our final question will come from the line of Ananda Baruah of Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two if I could.
Luca just a clarification did I hear correctly that you said selling of receivables would contribute $500 million less in '13 than it did in '12? And if I did hear that correctly is that a gross number or a net number? It's a -- I mean it's a gross number I would say because it's essentially a number the combination of the fact that we do not expect the portfolio to run off as much as it did in 2012.
We believe that equipment activity is going to be stronger in 2013 new products and so on.
And the fact that of course we have accelerated the collection of certain receivables from '13 in 2012 right? So it is the amount of lower contribution that we expect from finance receivables in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Is that -- so is that -- is the comparable number to that in '12 the $625 million or the $502 million or the...
The comparable number is $947 million.
It's the amount of cash that we generated in finance receivables during 2012 which was $947 million.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
That was helpful.
And then just a follow-up is Ursula did I hear you correctly that you expect equipment sales to be up or to grow in 2013? No it won't grow.
I said that we expect total revenues to be in the Technology business to be down in the mid single digits.
We expect some softening of the decline that we saw in 2012.
We saw double-digit decline in 2012.
I expect that we'll see -- continue to see declines but it will just be moderated a bit as we launch new products.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I was asking just specifically about equipment sales not...
That's specifically about equipment sales.
And the total revenue is about the same anyway.
I mean the answer can go for total revenue or equipment sales.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just last one on the equipment sales.
Any margin implications from the new product launches positive or negative due to mix of pricing? Not really.
It turns out that equipment sales are less profitable than post sales.
That's the way that the business model works.
But over time throughout the -- as this matures as we sell and it matures I don't think there'll be any margin implications.
Margin implications will come from the fact that we actually are restructuring and we'll continue to do that to drive cost and stay competitive.
Thanks.
That's all the time we have for questions today and I certainly appreciate your interest.
And Ursula I'd like to turn it over to you to wrap up please.
We covered quite a bit of ground today and I'd like to spend just a second in kind of raising it up a little -- a couple of levels.
Here are the reasons to keep your eye on our company: Services-led growth possible leadership through Document Technology cash-generating annuity-based business model consistent earnings expansion and financial strength to invest and building value for Xerox and building value for you.
And that's our focus and I'm really confident that we'll continue to deliver.
Thanks Ursula and that concludes our call today.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without express permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
During the first quarter we delivered results in our Services business that align with our growth strategy and our expectations.
However we fell short in our Document Technology business which put pressure on our overall results.
We'll talk today about the consistent trends that we see in our business with Services becoming a larger part of our total revenue now at 55% and fueling our annuity base which is now 86% of total revenue.
And we'll discuss the consistent trends that we're seeing in the marketplace which require fast implementation of business model changes.
We remain focused on earnings expansion and generating strong cash flow and we remain committed to our full year expectations on both.
And here is a closer look at Q1 results.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.27.
This includes a $0.02 benefit from the reduction of a litigation reserve.
As a result earnings were above our guidance.
In Services we delivered 4% revenue growth along with a stable segment margin and a 64% increase in the TCV of signings to $3.7 billion.
Again the results in our Services business were as expected for the first quarter with signings coming in better than expectations and margins slightly lower.
We're making steady progress on managing the cost base to improve the profitability of the Services business as we continue to ramp for growth -- for more growth.
In Document Technology revenue was down 9% and segment margin declined 1.7 points.
Q1 performance was weaker than expected due to timing issues with our recent ConnectKey launch of mid-range products as well as continued tough market conditions.
I'll provide more detail in a moment but want to assure you that we understand the issues and are taking immediate actions to address them including plans to reinvest our earnings upside in Q1 to accelerate restructuring activities in Q2.
During Q1 we used $87 million in operating cash.
That's in line with normal seasonality and reflects a temporary increase in inventory.
On the next slide we'll take a closer look at the income statement.
Total revenue of $5.4 billion was down 3% reflecting growth in Services and weaker-than-expected revenue in Document Technology.
Based on our product backlog and steady growth in Services I am confident top line results will improve throughout the year.
During Q1 lower revenue put pressure on margin.
As a result operating margin of 7.4% was down 1.1 points from last year.
And here's what contributed to the margin decline in the quarter.
First as with any major product launch we made investment -- incremental SAG investments in Q1 to support the ConnectKey announcement invested in sales training channel outreach and marketing.
We planned for the initial revenue benefit from the launch to offset the incremental costs.
But the revenue ramp got off to a slower start and total Q1 Document Technology revenue declined more than our expectations.
So the revenue shortfall resulted in SAG at a higher percent of revenue.
Some of this will self correct as revenue picks up both for ConnectKey and in our production color business.
But as I mentioned we'll implement a higher level of cost actions in Q2.
Second Services is a larger part of our total revenue.
As a result margin is impacted by higher growth in lower-margin businesses such as IT Outsourcing and Transactional BPO.
In Q1 our adjusted Other was $12 million.
That's down $67 million due to the litigation reserve reduction and lower restructuring.
Equity income of $47 million grew $7 million driven by profit growth of -- at Fuji Xerox and the adjusted tax rate was 22%.
This includes a benefit from the Taxpayer Relief Act.
Adjusted EPS of $0.27 was $0.04 higher than 2012.
I remain confident that we'll deliver solid earnings growth in 2013 benefiting from our cost actions share repurchase portfolio expansion and Services growth.
On Slide 6 we'll review our Services segment.
The 4% revenue increase in Services reflects steady growth in BPO which was up 3%; ITO which was up 13%; and Document Outsourcing up 1%.
And here's a closer look at each of these areas.
Business Process Outsourcing represents more than 60% of our total Services revenue.
We are benefiting from strong growth in transactional processing and state government services.
This was partially offset by volume declines in other areas.
We're quite pleased with the organic growth in BPO and had less contribution from acquisitions in this space.
Keep in mind that in Q1 of last year BPO increased 13% giving us a tough year-over-year compare.
I'm also pleased with the solid performance in IT Outsourcing.
It's the benefit of megadeals that we signed in 2011.
In Document Outsourcing growth was lower in the quarter a slower start to the year than we expected.
But signings for new Managed Print Services and renewals were quite strong and will flow through to improve revenue later in the year.
As a matter of fact total signings were our good story across the board.
They were up 64% year-over-year.
Renewals were particularly strong as well this quarter.
The renewal potential and the high success rate is reflected in our 89% win rate.
New business annual recurring revenue was up 8% year-over-year.
The pipeline is up 5% a steady growth even with strong signings.
Segment margins of 9.3% was flat.
We offset negative mix and pricing with cost reductions.
In quarter 2 we have a tough compare from last year's 10.6% margin but we'll continue to press for efficiency while never compromising on client satisfaction.
So we expect Q2 segment margin around 10% reflecting strength in BPO and ITO and a lower margin from Document Outsourcing.
And for the full year we continue to expect to be in the 10% to 12% range with modest year-over-year improvement.
So Services in summary revenue metrics trending well and margin holding ground delivering solid performance as expected.
I'll turn to Slide 7 for a review of our Document Technology business.
In Document Technology we expected a revenue decline of mid-single digits.
During Q1 revenue came in lower at a 9% decline driven by a 12% decline in equipment sales.
In reviewing the results here's where we saw the shortfall in revenue which created pressure on segment margin and here's why we're confident that the results will improve going forward.
First lower-than-expected performance from Europe and some spot weakness in developing markets resulted in lower post-sale revenue.
We continue to have our eyes wide open to the macro trends.
That's why we're scaling investments in higher growth areas not only in outsourcing services but also in color printing and expanding distribution to small and mid-sized businesses.
Install rates are good indicators of our progress in these areas.
A4 color MFDs up 16%; and high-end color up 44%.
Second in February we announced ConnectKey.
It's a software system embedded in 16 new Xerox multifunction printers some of which began shipping in Q1 and many that are shipping now in Q2.
This is a significant launch for our mid-range business.
As I said the install ramp started a bit later than expected.
It has since picked up and we now have a healthy backlog that will serve us well during the year.
For the balance of 2013 here's what will contribute to revenue improvement: a full launch of ConnectKey; new high-end color systems including advanced iGen presses and the addition of Impika inkjet printers; and expanded coverage of SMB through our global imaging distributors and through additional indirect channel partners.
These are all profitable growth drivers to help offset uncertainty related to macro conditions.
Again focusing on the cost base continues to be a priority.
We're making progress in taking costs out of a legacy infrastructure but we need to accelerate this progress especially in Europe.
Considering our expectations for improving equipment revenue and the competitive price environment Q2 segment margin will be somewhat lower year-over-year but sequential improvements from Q1.
Slide 8 is a look at cash flow in the quarter.
Cash from operations in Q1 is in line with seasonality.
The $87 million use of cash is a bit weaker than in 2012 but that's largely due to a temporary increase in inventory.
Accounts receivable was less of a cash use in the quarter due to lower reliance on factoring in Q4.
In line with our expectations finance receivables was less of a source of cash.
Also as anticipated cash contributions to our global pension plan was lower year-over-year by $34 million and this reflects our expected full year decline of $150 million.
Moving down to investing.
We spent $107 million on CapEx and $58 million on dividends.
And as we announced in February our quarterly dividend will increase by 35% effective with dividends payable in April.
Cash from financing was a much smaller source of cash.
And last year we went to market in Q1 to pre-fund a May note.
This year we have a smaller note coming due in May of $400 million.
We plan to retire this note in line with our debt reduction guidance.
And as a result debt of $8.5 billion was lower year-over-year by $1.1 billion and flat to year end.
And $4.9 billion of our debt is associated with our financing business.
We did a nominal amount of share repurchase in Q1 driven by our cash flow timing.
We continue to plan on repurchasing at least $400 million in shares this year weighted towards the second half in line with cash flow.
And we continue to expect $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion in cash with no change to capital allocation plans.
So let's turn to Slide 9 for a wrap up and then we'll take your questions.
So in summary I call our performance mixed in the quarter.
Again I am pleased with Services and we're seeing improving trends especially in reducing the cost base delivering stable segment margins and growing signings.
These results are strategically important to the transformation of our company.
But I'm disappointed in the slow start to the year in the Document Technology business.
I also believe that we understand the issues in our control and that we are taking the right actions to make progress from here.
Our product innovation brings differentiated value investing in areas of growth like in Services high-end color and in SMB distribution.
And we're divesting in lower growth non-core areas like our North American paper business.
Our pricing is competitive and we continue to take cost actions to maximize profit.
Across our entire business we'll continue to rationalize our portfolio and restructure our cost base to create a leaner and more flexible business model.
So for the full year we expect total revenue to come in at the low end of our flat to 2% range.
Our full year guidance for earnings for cash flow and capital allocations remain unchanged.
For the second quarter we expect adjusted EPS of $0.23 to $0.25.
Again we plan to increase restructuring activities in Q2.
Approximately $0.02 of restructuring is comprehended in our second quarter guidance.
Expected first half results will keep us on track to meet our full year guidance of adjusted EPS of $1.09 to $1.15.
With improving margins cost controls and steady growth we'll consistently expand earnings and generate strong cash.
We'll continue to take a balanced approach to our capital allocation which creates value for our shareholders.
That's a good place for me to end.
Before we open it up to questions let me turn it over to Jim Lesko Head of Investor Relations.
Jim? Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula today is Lynn Blodgett Head of Xerox Services; and Armando Zagalo de Lima Head of our Document Technology business.
Also let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
This is a question for Ursula and Lynn.
I'm not sure who wants to take it.
But looking at the Services business you'd anticipated some improvement and it was obviously flat year-over-year.
You're accelerating restructuring throughout the business I believe.
So how do we sort of think about what's going on underlying in the Services business? And how do we think about the growth that you have in terms of signings if that might impact your ability to see substantial -- or some improvement in margin as we go through the year just if you guys can sort of take that and better frame what you're seeing in Services right now? Thank you Shannon.
I'll take it and maybe turn it over to Lynn in a little while if I don't get to all of the points.
First of all we're very pleased with the performance of Services in the first quarter.
Our signings -- our revenue growth at 4% was as expected without a big contribution from inorganic -- from acquisitions.
Our margins were essentially in line with what we expected.
We expected a little bit of improvement maybe 10 basis points or so but we came in strong.
And our signings renewal rate new business rate were all very very very strong.
The predictions that we have for second quarter the outlook that we have for second quarter is continued expansion in margin on a sequential basis.
We have a tough compare in quarter 2 so it will be down a little year-over-year in quarter 2.
Sequential expansion and then throughout the year continued expansion.
We expect to end the year in the 10% to 12% range up a little bit on a year-over-year basis.
So I think that if you look at our -- the underlying of our business the cost actions that we're taking the management focus that we have on good mix of business and new business and the look for continued acquisitions you should be fairly confident in how we'll -- how the Services business will play out in 2013.
The other thing Shannon I think is that in our cost restructuring that we talked about last quarter we saw the flow-through of that.
It was north of $30 million.
We did have the runoff of our -- we've started to see the runoff of our student loan business which is very high margin.
It's a very mature contract.
And so that had an impact but our cost restructuring of the fourth quarter offset the discounts that we have expected and the runoff.
The other thing that we're doing to -- that gives us confidence about the ongoing margins and our ability to grow them is that we have a -- our restructuring and our basic shift of our cost model is -- we're just kind of getting underway with that.
And we saw -- we did some things in the fourth quarter.
We have a program now called Project Compete that is our effort to move work -- more work to low-cost domestic locations and to low-cost offshore locations.
And that's underway and it's going to run through right now clear through '14 and probably beyond that.
So we still have an awful lot of high-cost labor in our model and we're working to reduce that.
And I think that's our -- probably the main thing that gives me the confidence that we can increase margins.
Great.
And then my second question is just -- Ursula can you talk about what you're seeing from an economic standpoint both perhaps in the enterprise as well as SMB and geographically? Because we've heard from obviously several companies so far and it's clearly not a robust market environment out there.
But I'm curious as to what you're seeing in your verticals and just whatever you can provide to us.
Macro and fiscal uncertainty definitely continued in Q1.
We saw that in our Document Technology business primarily.
From a geographic perspective Europe remains weak.
And in the first quarter it had its -- some shocks that weakened it even further.
And we did see a slowdown a bit of slowdown in some developing market economies.
We're hoping that that doesn't stay for a long time.
But our business model is fairly resilient in the developing market which is good.
We have a very flexible cost base there so we can actually adjust our infrastructure cost to whatever revenue comes in.
U.S.
remains stable but weak.
I mean we have not seen a pickup in the U.S.
Sequestration didn't hurt us a whole lot.
It didn't help us.
It made decision-making -- it continued to keep decision-making slow.
So what I would say is overall we have a status quo weak environment around the globe with -- whenever there's a little bit of a shock we see a little bit of a shock in people's outlooks.
But nothing too significantly worse than we saw in the first -- in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to -- I wanted to ask about technology.
One of the -- I wanted to hash out the end.
You probably get a profit benefit that's either coming or you saw a little bit but then it also -- the last time this happened I don't know 12 13 years ago where the yen weakened quite a bit Canon cut price quite a bit and took a lot of share.
And I was wondering if that has started and what you think the pricing environment will be throughout the year given the weak yen? Yes.
Let me start with the yen and the impact on our business and then I'll go into pricing a little bit.
So the yen weakening overall is a positive for us.
But as you know we actually have 2 hedges there.
We -- one we have currency sharing with Fuji Xerox and second is that we hedge the yen on a forward basis.
We did -- we were fairly aggressive in hedging in the fourth quarter in the second half of 2012 as we saw the yen continuing to weak.
So we don't benefit as much from the yen weakening immediately as other -- as the yen would -- as you would expect from the yen because we do have these 2 mechanisms to help offset those major moves.
The benefit in the first half was less than -- was kind of nominal.
It'll be more in the second half.
It'll be probably -- total around $50 million in the year back end loaded for us if the yen stays where it was at the end of the year.
As it weakens further obviously more benefit.
We'll continue to hedge in the currency share.
So as far as pricing goes we have seen a little bit of a move up in pricing aggressiveness.
So we generally are and have been over time in this 5% to 10% range.
This is primarily in Document Technology obviously and primarily on recruitment because the post-sale contracts are locked in for longer periods of time.
And we are seeing activity at the higher end of this 5% to 10% range.
And we are being aggressive.
I mean so -- especially as we launch ConnectKey which gives us a set of offers that allows us to be aggressive in the marketplace a new set of offerings.
We're matching price as we have to to win back share that we lost when we didn't have the products in the second half of 2012.
So pricing at the higher end of the 5% to 10% range and we're being aggressive to make sure that we stay competitive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just elaborate a little more on the government in particular? What -- I mean in the last question you mentioned some of it but what is the latest in terms of government as a percent of sales? And what -- and the difference that you're seeing in Services in particular between state and local and federal and how it impacts your business? And in particular if you could touch on whether you expect things to get better this quarter in that vertical maybe if -- somehow? Yes.
So we are not heavily exposed to the federal government.
We have a small portion of our revenue 5% or so in federal government.
More heavily concentrated in state government 20% -- 15% 20% in state government.
What we've seen -- and so I'm speaking about state government here not too much about federal government because it's kind of de minimis for us as I've said.
State government we are seeing some good news particularly in health care.
We have a strong position as you know in MMIS around the United States and California is our big contract.
New Hampshire just went live.
We're doing well there.
Decision-making -- so health care is a big segment for us.
We do well there and our profitability is improving in that segment actually very very well.
So I'm very -- I'm bullish about health care -- government health care services.
What we are seeing though is that any new decisions -- any decision in the government takes a little bit longer.
A lot more discussions a lot more engagement a lot more senior-level engagement with state officials and by us.
So myself Lynn our CFO are engaged in these kinds of discussions with state officials.
The good news is that they do eventually come and we win our fair share.
So slow reaction time slow decision-making progress but our concentration is good.
And we are -- our major concentration is in health care.
We also have a transportation business that's clearly government-based as well and we do well there.
So I don't know if Lynn wants to say anything else.
I just -- I was going to add the comment about transportation that we saw good signings and we manage it separately.
But as Ursula said it's part of our -- most of them are government entities.
So we saw good signings there and just agree with what Ursula said.
Your next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two if I could.
Did I hear correctly that the technology operating margins are expected to be sort of in the 10% to 10.5% range for the June quarter? I just wanted to get a clarification on that.
Yes.
You heard that correctly.
As you know last year for the full year our operating margins were north of 11%.
And we -- which is above the range that we have.
And we guided to somewhere around 10% to 11% margins for the second quarter -- operating margins for the second quarter.
So expansion over the first quarter pretty significant below last year and in line with what we would expect.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So it sounds like overall operating margins are expected to be right back on track once we get to the second -- during the June quarter? They should be back on track there? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess my follow-up is will you guys -- the strength in signings for the March quarter I mean for the March quarter how is that relative to your expectations? And what's best for us to think about with regards to how timing of those signings turning in -- sort of converting into revenue? And does it change your I guess your revenue run rate in any particular way? Well I think that -- first of all the -- part of the good news of not having a lot of megadeals is that smaller deals are easier to ramp.
And so we expect to see impact from the signings probably a little quicker than if we'd -- we've said many times if we sign a big Medicaid deal they take a long time to ramp and these deals are typically -- that we've signed in the last quarter are a little bit smaller.
So we do expect to see the flow-through on that.
It's going to be -- still take some time.
So that's why we're predicting that our revenue growth will pick up more in the second half than in the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with BMO Capital Markets.
I have 2 also the first is on Services and the second is on Technology.
The first on Services I'd like for you to address if I could Ursula I think your characterization of the Services performance was generous.
The signings were great particularly in BPO but the margins and revenue continue a string of disappointments.
It wasn't communicated to investors that margins would be flat in the first quarter.
Margins would improve and yet once again they came in flattish even with the help of restructuring.
You are guiding the margins of I think 10% in the June quarter.
That's down on a year-over-year basis but a tough comp.
Your guidance for the year is 10% to 12% but I think at the low end is I think how you'd characterize it.
What are the consequences for continuing a -- to having a year of -- if in fact you've -- the margins fall short on Services what are the consequences of another year of disappointment on margins? So Keith we expect that we'll have margin improvement throughout the year.
We'll fall in the 10% -- the 10% to 12% range and have margin improvement on a year-over-year basis in 2013.
I -- my characterization was just a characterization.
I don't know generous or not.
I think that we came in where we expected in revenue.
We came in ahead of where we expected in signings in renewal rate.
And in mix of business we were fairly solid.
As far as margins for the quarter what we ended up producing which was flat on a year-over-year basis was slightly lower than we expected driven primarily by the fact that we actually had great signings and had some compensation payouts that we had to make for those great signings.
But I think that if you look at the business on a go-forward basis looked at signings with the new business rate that we have with the renewal rate that we have et cetera et cetera that as the year continues we'll meet expectations that we laid out.
We also did a fair amount of restructuring as Lynn said.
That restructuring did come to the bottom line and allowed us to actually deliver the flat margins.
I think that we were fairly well contained in Services in this first quarter and we will be for the rest of the year as well.
All right.
Well before I ask my second question I just want to stress Ursula I think clearing 10% this year in Services margin is incredibly important for the trajectory of the stock and another year of disappointments will be just that.
We would agree with you on that.
We expect to be in the range of 10% to 12% and that means that we have to clear 10% to be in the range of 10% to 12%.
And Keith I think you know that we actually manage this and track it.
We have a restructuring program a signings program a mix of business programs.
We're trying to acquire in the right areas.
We're a little light on acquisitions this quarter expect to pick those up as we go along.
We don't acquire willy-nilly.
We try to do it in a very disciplined way.
And so I think that the business is actually running pretty much in line with the way that I would expect it to run.
All right.
Just to mention then my second question on Technologies is there a way to think about -- with the product introductions it feels like it shifted perhaps some revenues from March to June.
Is there any way to think about that in terms of dimensions? I know you mentioned backlog was up.
I just wanted to see if you could provide any color on -- or quantification on how much backlog or how much do you think was perhaps shifted from March to June in the Technology segment because of those product introductions? And should we be thinking about any of that for the June quarter with -- it might get further shifted to September? Thank you Keith.
I don't -- we expect to capture a lot of the miss in the first quarter -- in the second quarter but it'll continue to flow through in the rest of the year as well.
Our backlog was up around 25% which is significant in the quarter and we saw in the second quarter.
So so far in April we saw installs up and activity up.
So that backlog is not just sitting on the books it's being fulfilled in the quarter.
So I think that -- I'm fairly confident that we will -- that we are fulfilling the promise of ConnectKey which is to move our activity up.
One of the things I want to actually make sure that is clear we actually predict this business to be down mid-single digits the Document Technology business.
We are very very -- our eyes are wide open to what's happening in the marketplace so we're not delusional about the progress here.
We're investing in areas that grow and we're trying to take our costs down in areas that are not growing and are moving away.
So we're investing in Document Outsourcing we're investing in low-end distribution we're investing in color across the board and in high end color in particular.
And as we do that -- ConnectKey is one of the key elements there.
We were a little slow off the launch of ConnectKey even though we invested in SAG we invested in marketing we invested in the areas that we should.
I'm fairly confident that quarter 2 -- very confident that quarter 2 will deliver back to the mid-single-digit revenue declines and get our ratios better in line and therefore our operating margin better in line.
One of the key points here as well is if you look at gross margin our gross margin in Technology was flat which is harder to move.
It turns out it's harder to improve your gross margin than it is to improve your operating margin in Technology because our operating margin is around investment that we make on an active basis if you know what I mean.
We just make them.
So I'm actually feeling pretty good about Document Technology in quarter 2.
I was very disappointed in quarter 1.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the Services segment as well.
Last quarter you had mentioned that some renewals slipped into Q1.
Can you talk about how that impacted the renewal rate and how we should off of that think about the renewal rate heading into Q2 and for the remainder of the year? Yes.
Lynn will take it.
Great.
The -- yes had some deals that moved our renewal universe if you want to think of it that way in Q1 was quite large.
And we've had a very very good success rate.
We're up about -- I think about 40 bps in terms of renewal rate quarter-over-quarter.
And that has a dramatic impact.
A renewal is as good as a booking and -- or in some ways better.
So we are optimistic that our renewal rate in the second quarter will continue to be within our range and we think we'll actually have very strong renewals this quarter.
And if you look at the mix of the business Bill it's also good for us.
We talked about this -- I don't know if we talked about it in signings but if you look at our signings number -- this is off of renewals and into signings but also in renewals.
BPO very very strong across the board in just -- on every metric that we have.
And BPO is -- has better margins than ITO.
So BPO for the first quarter and for 2013 should be strong.
Document Outsourcing was also very very good.
ITO we're benefiting from 2011 signings turning into revenue today.
So revenue growth is very good.
The mix of business for Services is looking good.
I mean it's coming out the way that we planned for it to come out or we would like for it to come out on a go-forward basis.
So good BPO; good signings in Document Outsourcing which helps us to offset this low Document Outsourcing revenue.
So that's really good.
And ITO delivering on all the -- all of the signings that we had from 2011.
So looking pretty good.
Research Division</strong> If I could just one more on Services.
Can you comment on -- you had a big signings quarter.
Can you comment on the average contract length for the Services deals you had this quarter given that obviously last year you had a pretty significant shortening of contract length? And obviously that has implications down the road for profits.
So could you comment on whether that trend has continued and how you're  thinking about that as you look at your signings pipeline for this year? Lynn will take it.
Yes.
As you have guessed our average contract term was shorter in the first quarter.
Last year we were at about 4 years.
This quarter we were closer to 3.
And that's reflected in the fact that we have a lot of BPO signings not much in terms of ITO -- ITO tend to be longer contracts -- and deals that were a little bit smaller.
So we -- but we have a good renewal rate and so we're confident in terms of the long-term growth.
By the way the shorter contract length contributes to -- if they were longer the TCV would be even higher which is an interesting thing.
One of the things that Lynn mentioned he said more contracts.
We have 38% more deals signed in this -- giving us that $3.7 billion.
It's actually an amazing thing and a positive thing in that as Lynn said big deals are longer to stand up to shorter deals and the smaller deals and shorter deals are a little bit easy to stand up.
So we should be able to see the revenue flow through these starting in the second half.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Ursula in your prepared remarks it sounded like you're shaving the low end of the expected revenue targets for the year closer to flat versus slight growth.
Was the primary change there related to the outlook for the Technology business? And if so is it largely the pricing dynamic or is it the revenue timing of the mid-range refresh? Yes.
So the -- we did say lower end of the range and it is all from the Document Technology business.
And it's a mix of both things that we're seeing.
One is we expect that the revenue from the product refresh will come in will start to come in.
That's not going to be the biggest -- it'll contribute a little bit.
And the other piece of -- the other contribution is from what we're seeing in Europe and the slowdown in DMO that's creating a post-sale -- a usage lower -- lower usage and that one is harder to kind of outrun.
In addition we are light on acquisitions.
And acquisitions -- we're going to make acquisitions in second quarter and beyond but the timing of those acquisitions will make it hard to have.
The revenue flow through will have a big impact.
So 3 areas: one is acquisitions; second is some slow start to the Document Technology but not that much there; and then page volumes and pricing and that whole mixed environment particularly in Europe and in DMO.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I wanted to ask specifically around -- maybe to get some more color around that post-sale line it was a bit weaker than I expected.
What were the primary drivers there? Was it primarily just straight usage? Are you seeing any kind of changes of pricing around the back end of these deals? Yes.
So the way that -- well back ended deal pricing specifically no.
But what we're seeing is the mix of 3 things coming together that gets to a lower post-sale.
One is usage down.
What we're selling the mix is lower.
So not that the price of any individual device is lower but people are buying more lower end things.
So mixed a little bit lower which gets you lower page volumes lower price per page on lower devices.
And we're participating in some segments just back to the second one particularly in high end color.
We're participating in -- we're participating more in the lower end of high end color devices.
And so it's a combination of low economic activity in DMO and in Europe mix and mix-driven low page volumes and mix-driven lower price.
But we're not seeing a change in the pricing of a deal if you know what I mean.
If you put an iGen we're not seeing a change in the pricing of an iGen deal.
Research Division</strong> And then last one for me just finally on the pricing environment.
Does the more competitive pricing environment impact your overall revenue outlook for the year? Or is it relatively small in the scheme of things? Yes I think it's relatively small in the scheme of things.
Most of it is in Document Technology and most of it is in equipment sale which is like 10% to 15% of our total revenue.
So it's not -- I mean something that we have to overcome but it's not going to be a significant mover at all.
We would be more concerned -- or I know it would be more of an issue if post-sale prices across the board went down but that's very very hard to do.
Very hard to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Notably the signings numbers were super impressive.
But I also want to take a bigger-picture look at this and the prior quarter was weaker than expected.
So maybe if you can Ursula from a longer-term strategic CEO perspective kind of help us kind of smooth it out a little bit to say -- is there a certain run rate that you want these signings to come in at to continue to grow your business organically? Because I imagine there is some rolling off all the time some coming on? And how we should look about that? And then this quarter was it truly kind of off the charts? Or was some of that pushed to deferred from the December quarter? And then in lieu of that with sequester were there some actually that didn't close that may close into the June quarter? So signings one of the things that we learned early on came over when we got into Document Outsourcing but even more when we brought ACS and got BPO and ITO in signings are lumpy Jim.
I mean there is not a predictable nature to signings particularly as we participate in the full mix of small to large deals which we do.
So I -- unfortunately I can't give you an "Expect x." They are lumpy.
Do not underestimate or dampen too much the signings that we did in the first quarter.
They were very very good even with the move of some deals from quarter 4 to quarter 1.
64% increase is real -- is a real increase.
The number of deals just the number of transactions was significantly bigger than we would than would naturally happen.
So the quarter was a really good quarter in signings no -- not just because we moved et cetera.
And sequestration we really haven't seen a specific -- so we didn't see specific line items stop or specific deals stop.
What sequestration does is it just puts a damp rag over everything from a time perspective.
So that's – and that's -- but we're kind of used to that now.
We didn't see a deal stop because something got de-funded.
Not at all.
But we did see a lot of slowness in decision making.
And we expect good signings again in quarter 2 as Lynn said.
So we do not expect quarter 1 quarter 3 -- quarter 4 1 and 2 to kind of average out to be an okay set of quarters.
We expect -- we had reasonable -- in quarter 4 a little bit light.
Very very good in quarter 1 heavy and we'll have a very good quarter in quarter 2 in signings as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just have a question on restructuring and the cost basis.
There's been a lot of mention on things potentially being accelerated so I just want to kind of frame the question in terms of –- for Ursula I guess between let's say 2012 the end of the year and the end of this year on a run rate basis all to 2014 how do you want to describe it? Can you speak about how much cost you're trying to take out of the business? Can you put a dollar number on that? And then also in the event that the Services margins may not come through or the Technology business doesn't come through can you speak about the flexibility you have to further become aggressive on the cost base? Give me some examples maybe for where you could actually accelerate savings.
So in 2012 we took about $150 million of restructuring charges primarily in Document Technology.
And towards the end of the year as you know we did a restructuring in Services.
And in the quarter –- and that flowed through to about $50 million to $60 million worth of savings in the first quarter of the year.
And we expected the savings for the full year to be north of $200 million $225 million.
For 2013 we expect a similar level of restructuring in 2013 to 2012.
What we've done in quarter 2 is accelerate some of that restructuring into the quarter and that will be primarily again in Document Technology.
We're going to take a bigger focus on Europe.
Europe is as you know difficult.
You may not know but Europe is difficult to restructure in.
The paybacks are very long.
It's a challenging environment.
But we're going to go after it with full force in quarter 2 and see what we can do in quarter 2 in European restructuring.
And the rest of that a smaller amount of it will be the continued restructuring and continued movement of labor in Services that Lynn spoke about.
So about the same year-over-year a step up in quarter 2.
That step up will allow us to continue to meet the first half earnings and assure that we'll meet the full year earnings expectations that we laid out.
And we're going to focus on Europe and Document Technology.
Research Division</strong> So that I've got that right -- so that's $150 million of restructuring probably this year and hopefully like $200 million -- that results let's say going into ’14 and on a full year basis $200 million of potential savings.
Am I understanding that right? Correct.
I think I answered all your questions I think.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question Ursula is around the Services business.
You're entering the fourth year now with the ACS services piece as part of your company.
I’m just kind of curious if we exclude the Document Outsourcing so the 27% or so of Services as Document Outsourcing it would put your ACS-related services around 40% of total company revenue.
Is that kind of how you Lynn and Tom kind of think about where you want that mix? Is it kind of over under where you were targeting say a few years ago? How should we think about that mix right now? Yes it's a great question actually.
We expect a little bit more.
We expect a little bit higher mix at this point in BPO and ITO.
And the biggest gap that we have is in acquisitions.
And that gap the acquisition gap is one that we're working really hard to remedy.
But the organic growth in Services is coming in actually this year ahead of where we expected it to be tail end of ’12 and first quarter.
And what we need to do is -- another point or 2 from acquisition revenue would be good.
And as far as the Document Outsourcing business it’s definitely a lumpy business.
It comes and it goes and right now we have lot of signs that'll translate into revenue in the tail end.
So I'm actually pretty okay with Document Outsourcing.
And organic growth in Services I'm good with as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just as a follow-up so you said the -- where you could have a remedy is more on the acquisition side? Where could those remedies lie? I mean can you give us a sense of what we could look to over the next 12 to 18 months as far as some of those remedies? Yes.
So here are the priorities that we have now.
The thing about acquisition is that you have to find a candidate that you -- which we find a lot of but we have to actually like the candidate and have a reasonable value match between the seller and the buyer.
You know all this.
Here's the focus areas that -- we're going to continue on capabilities particularly in what is called outside big data but I call it in data analytics or whatever to actually enable more business in our in situ business -- lines of business today.
That’s one area that you'll see.
The second area that you'll see is we're going to continue to double down and triple down in health care.
Some of that is big data but also in ways to mass market -- path to market in healthcare.
And the third will be international acquisitions across the board in our Services business.
Our international operations are growing but I want them to grow even faster.
And what it allows us to do is get revenue but also get talents that can be sitting internationally as well which is something that we need to actually accelerate.
So it will be in those 3 areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question is around cash flow.
Just kind of curious -- just given you are kind of entering years 2 and 3 or at least the more mature parts of these Services cycles that you signed on a few years ago after you acquired ACS can we see a situation where later this year -- maybe your total revenue actually could be flattish to even down but you could have some accretive benefits from some of these Services deals.
So we could actually see cash flow actually improve more than expected.
I mean are we getting to that positive inflection point from a cash flow perspective? Yes I think some and some but I don't think you'll see the revenue come down based on the signings.
Right? If you look at the signings and if we operate when we operate the contracts as they say I don't think you'll see revenue coming down.
You will see -- you could see strength in cash based on how effectively we bring those contracts and all other contracts that we have to maturity.
So you could have some benefit in cash.
I don't think that you'll see a negative in revenue.
Right? Megadeals have -- the megadeals that we've signed have a cash -- as they mature they have a cash benefit.
Right? So the most famous megadeal is California.
Right? And as California's maturing -- thank God -- and is doing fairly well -- I'm not going to say very well because very well always jinxes me -- it's doing well.
And so as that matures of course cash becomes easier to get out of the megadeals.
But I don't think revenue will be down.
I think cash has some opportunity and -- yes.
And your final question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get some color on your Services pipeline.
Could you tell us where you're seeing the greatest activity? What you're seeing in terms of mix and whether you're seeing any megadeals potentially come up? Yes.
we are on – the main areas that we're seeing activity are transportations health care our financial services customer care and in our government space.
As Ursula said we're seeing good growth in government health care and we continue to see a good pipeline there.
We're seeing a few more deals that are larger in size but not as many as we've had historically.
That's why I think it's important that we demonstrate that we can execute on these smaller contracts.
The number of deals that we did is up significantly and -- so I don’t think we should count on a huge influx of megadeals.
But we do believe that we’ll have continued strong signings growth through the year.
And this -- Armando will speak about Document Outsourcing.
Yes.
So megadeals in quarter one were 30% of total what I think helps the quick turnaround to revenue.
So we don’t have –- we have 70% of our deals that are not megadeals.
Industry-wise I give you a perspective about 2012.
So public sector was our major industry with 18 megadeals in 2012; financial services 16; manufacturing 10; health care 8.
Quarter 1 was a little bit different.
3 deals -- megadeals in education 3 in manufacturing and 1 in health care.
So I think that from the 2 you'll see that we have –- we participate in a broad set of industries and we are seeing the benefit of historic megadeals.
But today now more -- just across the board good activity from many different-sized firms and many different-sized engagements and that’s actually very good.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up question what percentage of your first quarter signings came from renewals that slipped from 2012? And are there any renewals slipping into the second quarter that could help drive second quarter’s bookings growth? Yes.
There's always -- as Ursula said earlier the bookings tend to be lumpy and there are always things at the end of one quarter that tend to slip to the next.
I think that if I had to put a percentage on it I would put it at about 10% maybe 15%.
And we had deals -- a couple of deals actually that we expected to close the last day of the quarter.
It didn't close and we've signed those already.
So -- but that's kind of normal.
Thanks George.
Okay that's all the time we have for questions today.
Thanks for your interest.
And Ursula anything more to wrap up? Yes.
Thanks Jim.
I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that Kathy Mikells will join us on May 2 as our new CFO.
She brings to Xerox extensive financial experience and a broad business acumen in both services and technology.
And Kathy plans to reach out to our investment community almost immediately after she arrives.
We covered a lot of ground today so let me bring it up a couple of levels.
Our strategy is consistent: services-led growth profitable leadership from Document Technology cash-generating annuity-based business model consistent earnings expansion and financial strength to invest in building value for Xerox and building value for you.
It's is up to us to execute effectively and I remain confident that we will.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me or any member of our investor relations team.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathryn Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
During the second quarter we delivered results that reflect consistent progress on our strategy and we improved on the key metrics that shape the future of success of our business.
First our shift to a Services-led growth portfolio is paying off.
Services revenue represents 55% of our total revenue.
That's up 3 points from the end of 2012.
It's growing at a steady pace contributing to annuity revenue stream that represents 84% of our total business and grew 1% this quarter.
We're taking a disciplined approach to improving operating margins so that our bottom line benefits more from top line growth in Services.
In Document Technology we're effectively managing the business as a profitable cash-generating operation.
We're maintaining our leadership in Document Technology by holding and growing share.
Through the launch of our ConnectKey platform earlier this year and by offering more advanced color digital presses we're maximizing our strength across the business plus we're maximizing our profit by lowering the cost base.
Margins trended better this quarter compared to Q1.
All up and all in we exceeded our EPS guidance for the second quarter and generated strong cash flow.
We're making the decisions to invest in growth and in building shareholder value.
I feel good about our progress through the first half of this year and I'm confident that we're positioned very well to deliver on our full year expectations.
Now here's a closer look at Q2 results.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.27.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations was $0.23 which includes $0.04 related to the amortization of intangibles and as I mentioned exceeded our guidance.
Revenue of $5.4 billion was up 1%.
During the first half of this year we announced the sale of our North American and European paper businesses so we've moved financial results from these businesses to discontinued operations.
Total revenue growth came from our Services business which was up 5% in the quarter.
Services operating margin improved sequentially and is in our range of 10% to 12%.
Our clients are increasingly expanding their relationships -- their partnerships with us to improve the effectiveness of their operations.
As a result we had one of our strongest year-over-year growth rates in signing and in the absolute TCV of deals.
Renewal rate in BPO and ITO was an impressive 95% and -- then the pipeline is up double digits.
So in Services we had solid across-the-board results.
Revenue from Document Technology came in where we expected which was down 5%.
It's a significant sequential improvement and reflects a benefit from the full rollout of our ConnectKey platform of printers and multifunction devices.
We also signed and began installing our largest order ever for a fleet of Xerox iGen color presses.
It was a huge win for our graphic communications business and an indicator of the continued strength of our leadership in this market.
Segment margins also improved sequentially in Document Technology coming in at the high end of our target range of 9% to 11%.
In total margin came in as expected up 2 points sequentially.
It's good progress but we have much more work to do and we have several initiatives underway that will deliver margin improvement.
Cash from operations was quite strong this quarter and we're on track to deliver $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion in full year operating cash flow.
It was a quarter of steady progress all the performance improvements align very closely with our growth strategy and resulted in EPS expansion.
During quarter 2 we also welcomed Kathy Mikells as our new CFO.
She's a quick study and already a strong contributor to our business.
So let me turn it over to Kathy.
Then I'll wrap up and we'll open the call to your questions.
Kathy? Thanks Ursula and good morning everybody.
I'd characterize Q2 as a very solid performance.
Overall Services performed in line with our expectations and Document Technology came in a bit better.
Our leading indicators were positive and cash flow was strong.
Let's start with a look at overall earnings.
Revenue was up 1% with growth driven by Services which was up 5% or 6% at constant currency.
We also had a positive contribution from equipment sale revenue which was up 1% our highest growth since Q3 2011.
Our gross margin of 31.4% was down 120 basis points driven mainly by mix.
The relative growth of our Services segment naturally dilutes gross margin.
We also had some negative impact from business line mix within Services and equipment versus supplies and financing mix within Document Technology.
I'll cover this a little bit more when we hit the segment slides.
RD&amp;E and SAG were both lower year-over-year benefiting from productivity initiatives as well as the greater mix of services.
Operating margin trends improved up 200 basis points sequentially with year-over-year margin contraction slowing to down 50 basis points versus down 110 basis points in Q1.
Margin benefited from greater leverage on higher revenues as well as productivity improvements.
There's clearly more work to do but we were pleased with the progress that we made this quarter and we understand what's needed in order to keep up the positive trend.
Adjusted Other net of $98 million and equity income of $36 million were both modest contributors year-over-year.
Within adjusted Other net there's $33 million of restructuring which is in line with our guidance and up slightly year-over-year.
As part of our ongoing productivity actions we anticipate a similar level of restructuring in Q3 which is fully incorporated into our adjusted earnings guidance.
Our tax rate came in at 24% which is 2 percentage points higher year-over-year and below our guidance of 28%.
Adjusted EPS of $0.27 was up $0.01 from 2012 and above our guidance range of $0.23 to $0.25.
Relative to guidance the overachievement was driven by better operating results as well as the $0.01 benefit from tax rate below our guidance.
So in summary a relatively clean quarter with good top and bottom line results.
Turning now to Services.
Services revenue was up 6% overall with BPO up 4% Document Outsourcing up 6% and ITO up 13%.
BPO growth of 4% reflects strong growth in Healthcare Payer and Pharma and state government partially offset by the elimination and runoff of our government and commercial student loan businesses.
Document Outsourcing growth of 6% was above expectations supported by a very strong equipment sales growth as well as Partner Print Services.
Finally ITO continues to grow at an accelerated rate driven by the ramp of a couple of megadeals that we had in 2011.
We expect ITO growth to taper off and return to low-single digits by the fourth quarter.
Segment margin was 10.2% in Q2 up 90 basis points sequentially and down 40 basis points year-over-year.
Margin was essentially in line with our expectations reflecting the benefits of productivity initiatives partially offset by the impact of less-rich mix.
As we look forward to the remainder of the year we expect the pressure from weaker mix to continue with the largest year-over-year impact from the government student loan runoff occurring in the fourth quarter.
Long term we're taking a number of actions to improve the mix of our portfolio.
We're accelerating investments to build more scale in competitively advantaged businesses with good secular and macro trends.
We're adding to our suite of capabilities to create more value for our customers thereby enabling higher margin and we're deemphasizing lower margin and low-return niche and noncore businesses.
Turning to our key performance metrics.
Signings were up 40% year-over-year and on a trailing 12-month basis turned positive for the first time in 5 quarters.
We continue to have shortening contract length and smaller average deal sizes with no megadeals this quarter.
New business ARR and NRR was up 5% year-over-year and we had good signings contribution across the line of businesses.
Our renewal rate was high at 95% and our pipeline grew 10% all positive indicators for our future Services performance.
So solid results from Services which we expect to continue into Q3 with revenue growth in the mid-single-digit and modest segment margin improvement year-over-year to roughly 10%.
Moving on to Document Technology.
Our revenue was down 5% this quarter improving as anticipated from the 9% decline in Q1.
We saw a really good pickup in equipment sale revenue year-over-year which was up 1% for the total company and down only 2% within Document Technology.
This compares favorably to down 11% and 12% respectively in Q1.
The equipment improvement was driven by the success of our recently launched products in mid-range and high-end and the related strong backlog we had entering Q2.
Within mid-range our recently launched ConnectKey platform has been very well received and resulted in 16% growth in installs of mid-range color MFPs.
ConnectKey refers to a software system that's embedded in 16 new multi-functional printers.
It provides industry-leading security more features for mobile users as well as the ability to customize the MFP to link into business processes.
High-end also experienced strong growth in both entry and production color driven by recently launched products.
We feel good about the improving trends in this segment as color continues to become a larger part of the business and begins to offset the declines in black and white.
Finally in entry we continue to see good growth in color A4 MFPs.
But in total this segment was down driven by weaker results in developing markets as well as OEM sales.
Overall Document Technology margin showed a really nice recovery from Q1 up 200 basis points and at 10.8% it was at the high end of our target range.
The year-over-year decline of 50 basis points was driven by lower supplies and financing mix with price pressure largely offset by cost and efficiency savings and a modest currency benefit from the weak yen.
Looking toward Q3 we're exiting Q2 with a strong backlog albeit not as high as Q1 and we expect revenue growth to be down mid-single-digits with margins seasonally lower.
So overall good performance from both Services and Document Technology which we hope to build on next quarter.
With that let's turn to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was very strong in the quarter.
The $533 million in Q2 and $446 million for the first half compares to $228 million and $213 million respectively for 2012.
Free cash flow was similarly strong at $426 million in Q2 and $232 million for the first half which compares to a use of $30 million in the first half of 2012.
The Q2 improvement in operating cash flow year-over-year was driven by the following: $105 million was from lower defined benefit pension contribution.
For the year we expect cash pension funding to be about $170 million lower so we saw the large part of that benefit in Q2.
Working capital was also better this year driven largely by accounts payable which is basically intra-year timing differences.
We also saw improvement in other assets and liability lines which reflects some intra-year timing as well as lower required Services investments.
Partially offsetting those positives was a lower source of cash from finance receivables which was expected given the $600 million of finance receivables that we sold last year.
Moving down to the cash flow report.
Investing from cash flows was a use of $167 million in the quarter.
We spent $107 million on CapEx and $81 million on acquisitions.
Cash from financing was a use of $427 million and included the retirement of our $400 million senior note in May as well as $72 million of common dividends which reflects the 35% increase in the dividend earlier this year.
Given the timing of cash flows and the note repayment we didn't repurchase shares during the quarter.
However we continue to plan on repurchasing at least $400 million worth for the year.
Given our first half cash flows and the historical cash flow seasonality of the business we're very well positioned to hit our full year operating cash flow guidance range of $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion.
Moving to the next slide.
I'll walk through our capital structure and capital allocation plan.
With the $400 million May senior note repayment we ended the quarter with $8.1 billion of debt which is down $400 million from the beginning of the year.
Applying the 7:1 leverage on financing assets our allocated financing debt is $4.9 billion leaving core debt of $3.2 billion.
This debt reduction satisfies our minimum target for the year.
We continue to expect $1.6 billion to $1.9 billion of free cash flow and our capital allocation plan including the debt reduction that I just talked about remain the same as follows: share repurchases.
We continue to view Xerox's shares as an attractive investment and we plan to repurchase at least $400 million worth of shares this year.
Acquisitions.
Through the first half we spent $134 million on acquisitions and we anticipate doing between $300 million and $500 million.
Our pace of Services acquisitions has been slower than planned which puts a bit of a damper on Services revenue.
So this continues to be an area that we're focused on.
I feel good about the quality of deals in our pipeline but I believe it's really important that we remain disciplined in targeting businesses that are a really good fit and at reasonable valuations.
And finally dividends will be a use of about $300 million of cash which factors in the Q1 quarterly dividend increase to $0.0575 per share.
You can see our capital allocation plans are on track and we remain committed to using our strong free cash flow to deliver value to our shareholders.
So before I hand it back to Ursula I just thought I'd take a minute to give you my perspective on the business with 3 months now under my belt.
One of the reasons that I took this job was my perception of the tremendous opportunity that Xerox has in front of it.
In Document Technology we face a growth-pressured competitive industry.
That said the industry is very profitable and we have a good track record of maintaining our advantaged position and maximizing returns.
In Services there's been significant work done to address cost and execution issues as well as evaluating our portfolio of businesses to shape our business for the future.
So I feel like we're in a reasonably good place today.
We understand our strengths and our weaknesses and the work in front of us to further transform Xerox.
I'm really happy to be on board and you can count on me playing an active role to ensure Xerox is a success.
And with that back over to you Ursula.
Thanks Kathy and here's a quick wrap-up.
We saw good improvement in Q2 and I'm very pleased with how the fundamentals of our business are performing.
We delivered steady Services growth improving trends in Document Technology margins in line with expectations and strong cash flow.
That said our business is still transforming and we are planning for additional restructuring during the balance of the year to create a leaner more flexible business model.
At the same time we'll continue to take a balanced approach to our capital allocations investing in future growth and continuing our share repurchase program high priorities as we build a sustainably successful business.
Considering our first half results there may have been an expectation that we raise our full year guidance.
However as I mentioned we're planning for additional restructuring in the second half of this year.
We believe that we'll face other headwinds including a higher tax rate so we're taking a prudent approach to 2013 guidance.
For third quarter we expect adjusted EPS of $0.24 to $0.26 per share.
This includes approximately $0.02 of restructuring.
And we continue to expect full year adjusted EPS in the range of $1.09 to $1.15.
By growing revenue improving margins and controlling costs we're confident that we'll consistently expand earnings per share and generate strong cash.
That's a good place for me to end.
Before we open it up for questions let me turn it over to Jim Lesko who's the Head of our Investor Relations.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today are Lynn Blodgett Head of Xerox Services; and Armando Zagalo de Lima Head of our Document Technology business.
Also let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I think you said that for the year you're thinking Services margins of 10% and I think that's at the low end of your range.
And if you could just confirm that for the year that you think Services margins will be in that range.
And when do you think you can at least get to 11% and maybe the higher end of the range now based on these new restructuring actions? Sure.
This is Kathy.
So when we look at Services margin if you look through the first half of the year year-over-year we're down about 20 basis points.
And so as we look at the back half of the year clearly we're targeting to make that up.
On a year-over-year basis I'd say we're still striving to try and be up a little bit year-over-year.
Clearly in the third quarter we have an easier compare.
And we will be up year-over-year and we're looking to maximize that benefit.
But overall if you look at the range for this year of 10% to 12% we'll be at the low end of the range still targeting to try and get a little bit of improvement year-over-year.
As you look forward to the different things that we're doing to really try and improve overall margin performance I talked a little bit about the fact that we're focused overall in our portfolio and making sure that we're putting resources where we have advantaged businesses with good tailwinds and we bring good competitive advantage to the table.
We're building additional capabilities so pointing to things like the acquisition of WDS.
We did a couple of small acquisitions this quarter Customer Value Group as well as an e-learning-based acquisition.
Those things are both in areas where we have good margins and we're building capabilities to add additional value that we bring to our customers.
We've also talked a little bit about the fact that we're continuing to look at offshoring and I'll call it right-shoring even within here in the U.S.
where we do work to get a better balance and a little bit lower-cost labor overall and that work continues.
So we have a number of different things underway.
Clearly those things aren't going to take us to the higher end of the range overnight.
It's going to take us a couple of years to get there.
But we're very confident that we're on the right path and we're confident with our overall guidance for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you said it's -- that was my follow-up is it -- it's a couple of years to get to the higher end of the range or the middle of the range right? I mean you don't give guidance for next year but I think everybody on the call would probably like to see it at least go up 1 point next year.
Yes.
We will give next year's guidance at our investor conference in November so I think I gave you a little bit of color about what we're working on.
And we'll give you more about 2014 when we get to November.
Your next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross of Cross Research.
Can you talk a little bit about the Technology business in terms of the strength in equipment sales? Obviously you had the backlog going into the quarter.
I'm curious as to sort of linearity during the quarter and then if you could talk at all about sort of geographic areas of strength and weakness.
Yes.
We saw the improvement in Document Technology throughout the quarter.
As you recall we exited Q1 with a strong backlog and we started to benefit from that backlog immediately throughout the quarter even at the tail end of quarter 1.
And we're pleased with that.
We expected that to happen and it actually delivered as we expected.
From a geographic perspective I would say you should expect -- we can characterize it as pretty much the same.
So we continue to see a weak but steady U.S.
environment.
We see Europe weak but not weakening and our developing economies are pretty much -- they slowed a bit but they're the strongest of the 3.
We did see a bit of a slowdown in Russia.
We started to see that in Q1 and it continued in Q2 but we're managing that.
So geographies are like that.
The high end of our business particularly in the U.S.
but even in Europe the high end of our business is doing very well.
So we're seeing that strength with new products and just good focus on the business and good competitive wins.
So from a line of business that's where we see the improvement.
Okay great.
And then I was curious Kathy when you think about mix of revenue how are you thinking about balancing it from a margin perspective especially in Services? Because obviously ITO's a lower margin sale.
I mean are you putting in place I don't know programs with the sales force or what-have-you to make sure that if you sign a BPO program then you can maybe do a little more ITO? Or how can we kind of stabilize some of the margin there and maybe just even in the overall portfolio? Yes.
So I'm going to take that a little bit in 2 chunks.
I'm a big believer that at the end of the day we create mix.
Mix doesn't just happen to us.
Obviously changing mix kind of takes a little bit of time.
If you look overall at ITO yes the growth has been a little bit higher there.
That's coming from things that we signed in 2011 that we've just continued to implement.
And as a result we've seen that tick up.
ITO is a place where we're not a huge player in the market.
We really participate there I think very selectively and we're pretty disciplined in terms of what we go after.
So as we look at the overall portfolio of business we're really focused on putting our resources and energy most in the areas where we bring competitive advantage to the table we bring scale to the table we bring capability to the table.
We can move up the margin chain by penetrating and radiating at customers.
And that's where we're really focused over the long term.
I'd also tell you tactically right we're doing better blocking and tackling.
I think when we talk about our confidence in terms of overall Services revenues -- I'm sorry margins we're really seeing that.
And that's work that's got to continue.
And so day in and day out making sure that we're doing everything we can both to reduce costs and to execute well.
Because we know especially on these larger contracts if it takes us too long to stand them up then we see margin pressure.
So those are all the different things we're working on.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On BPO specifically what factors should we think about to potentially see some acceleration in growth here over time? Is it simply a matter of getting past the student loan program running off by 4Q? Is it highly dependent on your picking up the pace of acquisitions? I mean how should we think about some of those factors? Good question Bill.
I think that there are 2 things.
I'll start and then I'll have Kathy or Lynn comment.
Clearly we have to pick up the pace of acquisitions.
Without those acquisitions we'll probably hover in the mid-range of the guidance that we gave and mid-single-digit revenue growth so we are focused on acquisitions.
We haven't not been looking.
The good news is that we have been looking but we are being very disciplined on both capabilities that we get but also price that we're willing to pay particularly in this kind of turbulent environment.
So we'll get them.
Kathy's focused on it Lynn is focused on it we'll get them.
The second thing which you mentioned which is important is the student loan runoff.
It is a big piece of the portfolio.
We -- by the way it's not new news we knew it was coming.
It's a hurdle that we have to overcome.
It's very profitable.
At the tail end of this deal the profitability is very high.
And so we'll -- we're going to have to manage our way over that through that hurdle.
And after we get through the compares on that clearly we'll see a growth in revenue and in profitability just because we won't have the negative on a sequential basis -- sorry on a year-over-year basis because we won't have that negative compare at a headwind for us.
So those 2 things are important but why don't Lynn actually say a little bit more.
Yes I think as Ursula said the acquisitions are really important to us.
We're looking at -- as we determine whether or not to do an acquisition we're evaluating its benefit from a geographic standpoint.
So does it -- does it further our global strategy? Does it meet our requirement in terms of higher-margin Services like data analytics? And so we're being careful and making sure that the acquisitions move us forward in those areas.
And in terms of other growth and margin expansion health care is an area of focus for us.
It typically has -- after we get deals up and running those things [ph] tend to be healthy-margin businesses.
Transportation we had good activity in the same local last quarter.
And those are all areas that over the long haul will increase margins.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up on the student loan issue I want to make sure I fully understood this.
I believe you said that the pressure on the margins is most intense in the fourth quarter.
So is that the case? And could you clarify how material that is? And how we should factor that into how we think about the margin path from the third to the fourth quarter? Sure.
So yes you heard us right.
Overall the margin impact has more year-over-year impact in the fourth quarter.
But overall for the full year let's call it 35 to 40 basis points in negative margin impact with that being a little bit heavier in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with BMO Capital Markets.
Could you talk -- you mentioned bookings and pipeline.
Could you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about bookings growth in the second half of the year? Yes.
We expect that -- we had a good -- we felt good about the bookings in the second quarter.
We think third quarter we're going to be strong.
It'll probably not be -- we expect them to not be quite as strong as they were in the second quarter but we expect healthy bookings to continue.
Renewal rates were very high and those -- that effectively has the same kind of impact as a good booking quarter.
The fact that renewals were high.
We expect that to return back more into the normal range of our 85% to 90% for the second half.
So...
Lynn would you expect bookings to be up 5% 10% any kind of -- I mean I'm not expecting.
I don't think the investors are expecting a sustained 40% year-over-year growth.
But will they have 5% 10% kind of year-over-year growth as we look at the second half? Any kind of calibration? I think that's a reasonable range.
Okay.
And then Kathy maybe for you on the technology margins.
Could you give a little of color there? I would have expected Technology margins to be a little bit stronger than I think you characterized given the yen number one; and then number two I would assume that mix tilts a little bit more in your favor.
You had a lot of equipment that you did this quarter.
I would assume that supplies and other kicks up a little bit in the second half of the year but maybe just kind of revisit why Technology margins what you think the puts and takes there and what investors should expect in the second half of the calendar year.
Sure.
So I would actually start by saying I was pretty pleased with where the Technology margins came out.
I mean 200 basis point sequential improvement so overall relative to what our expectations were I feel like the Technology segment performed quite well in the quarter.
So as I look towards the back half of the year clearly on a full year basis in 2012 we beat the range that we provide for Technology.
So we have tough year-over-year compares.
We didn't have the kind of product introductions last year that we have this year.
Obviously that takes a fair amount of investment on our part in kind of priming the pump as we're launching those things.
So we have tougher compares.
I expect seasonally to be a little bit lower kind of Q3 relative to Q2.
But overall I was pretty pleased with the performance.
But how should we be thinking about the change though Kathy year-over-year just if we look at calendar year '12? If you look we have exactly the same compare in Technology as we produced in 2Q.
And so I'd say we expect to be seasonally a little bit weaker which is what we would typically see.
Your next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> First one Kathy.
So should we think of the core business operations tracking a little ahead of the original guidance at this point? I can appreciate kind of the restructuring remarks for the second half of the year not sort of -- as a reason not to raise the overall guidance.
But it seems like you're tracking ahead from cooperations offsets a little bit.
From the restructuring there's numerous operational positives and not many operational headwinds and you get to the end benefit in the second half.
And then I guess -- and then I have a follow-up.
I think that you should look at the quarter not for the quarter but combine it with the first quarter and look at the half.
And I think that we would -- I would not characterize it as operating ahead.
I think we're kind of operating on where we expect it to be when you average the half.
We caught up in Document Technology.
We actually expanded our margins in Services.
We stabilized revenue and revenue came in on the average basis where we would've expected it to which is in our range of flat to 2% up.
So I think that you can look at it as the first half being kind of what we would've liked to have happened.
We did a little bit more in the second quarter than we did in the first to average that well.
For the rest of the year I think you should look at us continuing that disciplined pace.
Quarter 3 will be weaker in margin it generally is.
Quarter 4 will be a little bit weaker in revenue because we have some compares to come over in Services.
But I think on average the second half will come out pretty much like that first half and it's easier and better to look at it on a half basis than it is on a quarter basis.
Anything else Kathy? Yes.
All I'd add to that is we feel really good about the middle of the range of the EPS guidance that we provided.
Obviously we'd like to come in better than that.
We've only got 6 months under our belt.
I think when I look at all the gives and takes we're being very prudent.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And then my follow-up is just on share repurchase potential for the second half of the year or the guidance.
You have the greater sign in front of the $400 million but it seems like you could have significant upside potential depending on how the second half of the year comes in.
So I just wanted to get a sense of how aggressive you might be willing to get if you don't get -- if the acquisitions come in at the lower end of the $300 million to $500 million.
I think you had a couple of hundred millions of unallocated dollars entering the year as well.
Yes So I think everything that you said was correct.
Right you started with an if the second half of the year comes in because we are a second half of the year cash flow producer.
We clearly started out by saying we expected to do at least $400 million worth of share repurchases for the year.
Cash flow comes in better than that we would certainly be looking to do more.
We continue to look at our overall share price and feel like that's a good place for us to put capital clearly looking to drive value for shareholders.
But at the end of the day we are a back half of the year cash flow producer.
But at this point I feel really good about our overall cash flow guidance for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I want to kind of build off that last question just around capital allocation and the focus on acquisitions.
So Kathy how should we think about over the next year or so -- you guys talked about some restructuring here in the second half.
I presume there's going to be more thereafter as you really try to focus on the better performing assets.
And I guess the question is really around the cost savings.
How would they be redeployed? And if you could kind of give us a sense in terms of apportionments toward acquisitions versus increased stock buyback versus growing the dividend versus just dropping it to bottom line.
So that was a lot.
I'll try to tease that apart a little bit.
I'm going to start with acquisitions.
Look we said we desire to do kind of $300 million to $500 million clearly through the first half we're tracking at the low end of that.
We'd like to see more but they have to be good deals right? I mean we're disciplined.
They've got to fit with our portfolio.
They've got to be strategically aligned to places where we think we're going to get good synergies.
So at the end of the day valuation also matters and this is a little bit hard for us to predict.
When you take that into consideration and look overall in terms of our cash flow production so far and we're very comfortable with the guidance that we've provided if cash flow comes in well we're very happy to do more than the $400 million worth of share repurchases.
If you -- you talked a little bit then about restructuring.
I think clearly we pointed to both within the Technology business and within the Services business the need for us to continue to work on productivity and efficiencies.
That's what the restructuring dollars are targeted toward.
I talked a little bit about what we refer to as Project Compete and making sure that in the Services business we've got kind of people where they're optimized from a labor cost perspective both in the U.S.
and outside of the U.S.
We did a little bit of restructuring this quarter.
I'd certainly like to see us do and expect that we will do more during the remainder of the year.
So I look at that as really looking at kind of our overall income statement kind of core operating results and wanting to reinvest a portion of that to make sure that we're continuing to get the restructuring we need to get the productivity that we need.
And certainly that's absolutely the case on the Technology side of the business and expect it will continue to be that case over time.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up for Lynn.
Lynn could you talk about the conversion rate? Obviously the signings are starting to show some signs of life again.
But just kind of curious if you can give us your kind of view in what you're seeing with respect to rescoping or focusing on back to kind of negotiate the cost takedowns with deals that were signed previously.
Are you seeing any sort of headwind there? Or is it where you're actually seeing better improvement in terms of full conversion? I think that the phenomenon that we saw 1.5 2 years ago where people were coming back and renegotiating out of cycle.
We haven't -- that -- there's always some level of that but I would say not as much as we saw a couple of years ago.
The ramp as far as -- the ramp up proportions are pretty typical.
And we're seeing the first year contribution from bookings is pretty consistent.
One of the things that should actually work in our favor is that in the bookings we haven't seen -- haven't signed any big Medicaid deals and Medicaid deals typically ramp slower.
So those were things that negatively impacted us.
So I would say to that extent we're going to see a little better ramp-up.
Your next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So Services signings this quarter were up an impressive 40% after being up 64% in the first quarter.
How do you see this translating into revenue performance in the second half of the year especially factoring in the expected deceleration in ITO growth and student loan runoff? Well as Kathy said the headwinds that we're facing as you just pointed out in ITO we're lapping the ramp-up of those megadeals that we signed in 2011.
They're performing very well so we're really happy with it.
But as we said on the last call we have not seen the kind of megadeals that we would like to see.
Bookings are -- the positive of that is that we're seeing smaller deals that tend to ramp quicker.
So those things are positive.
I think the other headwind as Ursula pointed out was the student loan runoff and so those things are not trivial.
And we're in this -- those runoffs tend to be more light switch.
When you lap a contract that's -- you see that impact immediately.
And the student loan thing that will be a bit of a light switch that we'll see at the end of the year.
So the ramp-up of the new bookings will feather in whereas those are things that tend to drop off more quickly.
So that's why we're being careful in terms of our revenue guidance for the second half.
Even though bookings are strong and we're pleased with that.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And as a follow-up can you give us a bridge of what actions will drive additional sequential margin expansion in the Services business this year particularly given the negative impact from mix that you're seeing? Look I think we talked a little bit about those already so we're acknowledging the negative impact of mix.
We obviously knew about that at the beginning of the year.
So while we're pointing it out just so you understand the year-over-year compares we're not suggesting as a result of that that we're not confident in getting to our full year guidance in terms of overall margins there.
We had an easier year-over-year compare there for the third quarter and so we talked about the fact that we obviously have an expectation given that easy compare that we're going to see favorable year-over-year there.
And really I'd say execution and continuing to really work at getting costs down getting G&amp;A costs in the near term are things we're very focused on in ensuring that we're going to hit the guidance that we just talked about.
So you have some tactics which we are well into.
You've heard about us talk about Project Compete it's all about cost management tactically.
And then more strategically it is about driving advantaged positions in places in the portfolio and being a little bit more directive or selective about where we want to grow our revenues.
So that takes a little bit longer to do.
You do that incrementally.
So that gives us -- the short term gives us confidence that we'll get in the 10% to 12% range at the lower end and the longer term gives us a little bit more confidence that we'll be able to get to the higher end of the range and that's how we're managing the business.
I think too Ursula if I can add we've done a lot of work over the last 18 months or 1 year to 18 months on the portfolio in terms of areas that we should exit businesses that we should look at that don't fit our long-term growth profiles or margin profiles.
And so over time as Ursula said you'll see us doing some work in that area which will help as far as margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First of all just any comment you have maybe on the Technology side on the pricing environment and where we are on supplies and channel inventories would be helpful.
And then maybe a broad question for Lynn and Ursula.
It's been a few years now since ACS and I guess can you speak about the tangible revenue synergies that exist between Technology and Services? Maybe if you can give some examples of wins you've had over the last year where it's really coming together.
Is there more that you can do here so that in aggregate you could get both businesses growing one day? Or is that just not the way you see it? Okay so this is Armando.
So on the pricing side we don't see a consistent degradation of pricing in the marketplace in this moment.
You always see the odd case particularly in megadeals where competitors can become very aggressive.
But generically speaking we don't see any consistent degradation there.
So in terms of inventory in the channel there is no benefit that we have had in quarter 2 from an increase of channel inventory.
In fact we are managing to reduce the level of inventories in the channel just as a way to manage our relationship with the channel on a more healthy way.
And as far as revenue synergies go some of the tangible examples I won't give any customer names.
I'll give more segments that we've seen this.
Most of the synergies kind of clear come in our Document Outsourcing-ITO combination space which is a space that we're trying to leverage even more as we go forward in both office equipment distribution market.
In the personal care company market and in the telecom space are places that we are seeing the most leverage from the relationship between Xerox and the old ACS and ITO and Document Outsourcing that leveraged together is helping us on position.
The other place that we're seeing it is literally in just our brand carrying forward -- our brand in Technology carrying forward the ACS offers.
This is a big deal and kind of sprinkled everywhere.
Our engagement with the C-Suite is fuller and more impactful across the board when we go together with our full suite of offers.
We see that in the United States and we're clearly seeing that in our expansion outside of the U.S.
in Europe as well.
We're using our infrastructure using our reach from a client perspective and our brand name is helping this expansion.
So if you look at our revenue growth in Services you'll see that prior to the -- on average prior to the acquisition we were operating in a certain space not immediately prior to the acquisition but on average prior to it.
And we've stepped it up by at least 2 points so I think that it's clear that we're seeing that -- and our Document Outsourcing business is also doing better across-the-board.
So I think that that's where we see the synergies coming through -- revenue synergies coming through.
We're not at the end of this at all by the way it's a place that we're focusing a lot.
I think both Kathy and Lynn spoke about it is we have a particular focus on geographic expansion and that geographic expansion would be almost impossible without the background on the backbone of our Xerox Corporation infrastructure so that's helping us as well.
I think that if you look at ITO that continues to have such good growth.
The main driver of the growth in ITO are the megadeals that we've referenced multiple times.
And those are deals that have occurred precisely for the reason that Ursula described.
And I'm thinking of the 2 biggest deals we just would not have played in those deals prior to having the Xerox brand and Xerox footprint globally.
So it's helped us in ITO areas like finance and accounting we don't talk a lot about finance and accounting.
It's just one of those businesses that runs has strong growth.
And most of the deals that we sign in that area are possible because of the relationship the Xerox brand and the footprint and infrastructure there.
I'd say finance and accounting and HR are the 2 places -- additional 2 places besides ITO.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about R&amp;D.
If I look at first half R&amp;D it looks like there's about 9% versus last year.
And if you compare versus 2010 looks like your R&amp;D budget will be down about 20% to 25%.
A couple of questions on the back of that.
First are you investing enough to maintain your competitiveness from an R&amp;D standpoint in the core Technology business? And secondly are you effectively becoming more dependent on acquisitions for the development of your IP base in your Services offerings on a go-forward basis? So the answer to the -- so let me answer the questions in the 2 pieces.
From an R&amp;D perspective in the Technology space I think you have to look at it in the aggregate of what we invest in R&amp;D here what we invest in R&amp;D in our -- with our partner in Japan Fuji Xerox and the acquisition that we made of the liquidating company Impika.
And that -- so that shows up not as R&amp;D it shows up as an acquisition which will augment with our R&amp;D.
So if you put those 3 things together I would actually say we're not underspending at all in R&amp;D from a Technology perspective.
We're doing it a little differently so we took a point in time to actually augment with Impika but we're actually now pouring forward the appropriate level of research and development to be sure that we can continue to expand the capabilities that we have in the markets that are growing.
So that's one point.
From a Services perspective the R&amp;D is just different.
It's not that -- it requires less -- some of the R&amp;D that we would normally -- that you would normally see in a -- from a technology company gets in the deal buildup in the deal structure and we've then platformed that and start to work on that platform from an R&amp;D perspective.
So it doesn't show up the same way.
I do not believe at all that we are underspending in R&amp;D.
We're continuing to be more effective more efficient and all that stuff.
And I keep a really keen eye to ensure that we have the right level of investment in this space.
It's not something I take lightly at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up I wanted to get a sense on the bookings trend.
The bookings -- reported bookings number was quite strong.
Can you delineate the trend of new business contracts or new wins or incremental business versus renewals for first half? And how is that -- and where have you been seeing success in terms of new customers and new wins? I'll just start with the overall and then I'll get to whoever Kathy or Lynn both of you can struggle over this one.
New business signings were strong.
New business -- so we saw our total signings up 40% new business signings were up as well.
We don't give you the exact number but they were strong.
6% I gave you the number just now so I guess 6%.
And our ARR and NRR from deals is also up.
So across-the-board we're seeing stock future revenue participation from all of the areas that it should from renewals from new business from NRR deals.
So across-the-board we're seeing strength.
Yes and when you look at the -- when we report NRR and ARR those are all -- that's all new business.
And then when we talk about renewals that's the renewal business.
So it's -- so we try to give you color in both those areas.
Your final question comes from the line of Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'll squeeze in the last question here which is kind of a bigger strategy question down the road.
When we have the Obama health care item kind of on the horizon Ursula can you let us know how you and your team are approaching that? What are the opportunities there? What are the costs? I assume that could result in tremendous more processing.
So I don't know as far as pricing and opportunity does this disrupt other things? Is it all incremental? Do you have to start reinvesting early ahead of it? Can you just kind of help us as CEO how you're viewing the Obamacare and the impact potential for Xerox? Yes I think that health care in general payer provider government infrastructure is an opportunity almost across-the-board in just about every way you can think about it.
And very specifically Obamacare is one -- it's definitely going to be an opportunity primarily because it's forcing state governments to actually pay attention to this line item to this portion of their budget.
And they have to actually step back and think about what path forward they want to have.
It turns out that not every state is going to -- is going forward the same way and that's one of the things that we learn is that we have to actually manage it state-by-state.
Some people -- some states are standing back and just waiting and doing nothing but having lots of conversations with us about what other states are doing and how we can help them.
Some states are going really fast and when they're going really fast we engage in just about every piece of that infrastructure and looking at what they did in the past and providing data analytics and we're actually standing up with solutions for them.
So across-the-board it's an opportunity.
We have to be careful because I think what most people would've expected then on Obamacare passes that everything's going to be running towards a fixed solution.
We're not finding that at all.
I'll let Lynn put more color on it.
Yes I think that of course MMIS the Medicaid systems are still fundamental to the health care system exchanges -- we play in the insurance exchanges and that's an area as Ursula said we're seeing the different states take -- some are standing pat some are moving forward.
But that's an area -- a very important area and we play there.
We're seeing the transition from fee-for-service to managed care and that's a very important change because it affects the payers Medicaid and the private payers and it also affects the providers significantly.
We're seeing a real an interesting sort of melding of both the private payer and the government payers where the big private payers are playing now and part of playing with the government and Medicaid contract.
Fraud and abuse is a huge area.
It's -- we love it because we are -- we have so much transactional data.
We're the holders of that transactional data and adding analytics to that data to determine fraud and abuse for example is a tremendous value to the -- to our customers and it's an opportunity for us to capitalize on high-margin work.
So an awful lot going on there and as Ursula said some of it's easy to see and some of it we're having to just be careful and be conservative a little bit in what we do.
And we're definitely doubling down in this area.
I mean there's no -- there's not an area that we can invest in that we have any capability and that we're pulling back.
This is a space that we're going after pretty aggressively.
We -- as Lynn said it's fraught with risks but that's what we do for a living.
We try to manage that well and you've got your abilities to do well.
We're across-the-board payers providers and lots of information so we're using that as a leverage point for us.
Thanks for the question.
Okay that's all the time we have for questions today.
Thank you for your interest.
And Ursula anything more to wrap up please? Yes.
We covered a lot of ground today so let me bring it up several levels.
Q2 results and our continued focus are creating -- are centered on effectively implementing a sound and consistent strategy.
So let me remind you what that is.
First it's Services-led growth: BPO ITO Document Outsourcing.
Profitable leadership with -- from Document Technology investing where the markets have investment growth potential; cash generating annuity-based business model; consistent EPS expansion; and financial strength to invest in building value for Xerox and in building value for you.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have further questions please contact me or any member of our Investor Relations team.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without express permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining us today.
Before we review the third quarter I'd like to take a moment to remind everyone that earlier this week marked the 75th anniversary of the invention of xerography.
Back then the vision was to make work simpler by automating the copying process.
Since then simplifying the way work gets done has influenced the development of our products and more recently the expansion of our Business Process services.
We've remained true to that purpose.
And today we ensure that our strategy is linked to that original vision.
It's key for moving Xerox into the next 75 years.
So let's review the strategy.
The first plank is to shift our business more to services while enhancing our services offerings and improving our profitability.
Services revenue now represents 56% of our total revenue up from 51% in 2012 so we've passed the tipping point on revenue but still have work to do on margin.
To this end we continue to focus on improving our cost structure while maintaining investments in particular areas where we see opportunities such as health care.
Secondly we are focused on maintaining our leadership in Document Technology and effectively managing this profitable business with strong cash characteristics.
The past 2 quarters we've shown good progress.
This quarter we saw revenue decline stabilize and very good profitability and continue our market share leadership with #1 equipment share revenue.
Delivering on these strategies will enable us to deliver consistent earnings expansion and strong cash flow which we are committed to deploy in a balanced way that will enhance shareholder value.
During Q3 we successfully delivered on our objectives.
And although we still have work to do I believe that we are moving in the right direction.
So here's a closer look at our Q3 results.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.26 GAAP EPS of $0.22 which includes $0.04 related to the amortization of intangibles.
Total revenue was flat year-over-year down 1% in constant currency.
We continue to see growth in Services which was up 3% in this quarter although it is flattening a bit as we lap a ramp of large ITO contracts and inorganic contributions.
Services operating margin was 9.9%.
And although an improvement year-over-year it's an area where we need to make more structural progress.
Our renewal rate in BPO and ITO is at the high end of our range with continued positive pipeline growth and solid new business signings which positions us well for the future.
In Document Technology revenue stabilized with positive results in Global Imaging and the high-end business offsetting weakness in developing markets and Europe.
Segment margins were above the high end of our range reflecting both continued cost and expense management as well as the onetime benefit from our finance receivables sale.
In total margin was a solid 9.4% and up 50 basis points year-over-year.
Good progress but we have more work to do and we have several initiatives underway that will deliver over time margin improvement.
Cash from operations was very strong this quarter and we're on track to deliver at the higher end of the full year operating cash flow range and to exceed our threshold share repurchase targets.
So all up all in we had good results in Q3.
As we look to Q4 we face greater challenges where our revenue and operating profits will face some headwinds so we remain well positioned in our markets and confident in our ability to expand earnings over time.
With that let me turn it over to Kathy then I'll wrap up and we'll open this call to your questions.
Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
Overall we had a solid quarter.
One key highlight this quarter was that we saw operating profit growth from both our Services and Technology segments.
We also continued to see positive trends in leading indicators and strong cash flow.
Let's start with a look at overall earnings.
Revenue was flat year-over-year but down 1% at constant currency with Services growth of 3% and Document Technology decline of 4% or 5% at constant currency.
We experienced a slowing in Services growth which was expected and stabilization in Document Technology decline.
Gross margin of 31.5% was flat year-over-year despite the fact that the relative growth of our Services segment naturally pressures gross margin.
RD&amp;E and SAG were both lower year-over-year benefiting from our ongoing productivity initiatives as well as the greater mix of Services.
Operating margin was 9.4%.
Flat gross margin and expense line performance resulted in a 50 basis point margin expansion year-over-year driving operating profit growth of 5%.
There were specific dynamics in Services and Document Technology that contributed to this positive performance.
I'll cover that in more detail when I get to the individual segment slides.
Adjusted other net of $79 million was flat year-over-year with the benefits of a building sale offsetting higher restructuring in the quarter.
And equity income of $43 million was a modest contributor year-over-year reflecting continued solid performance trends in Fuji Xerox.
Our adjusted tax rate came in at 28% about 4 percentage points higher year-over-year.
Adjusted EPS of $0.26 was up $0.01 from 2012 and at the high end of our guidance range of $0.24 to $0.26.
Clearly this is 1 blueprint for the type of operating results we want to see going forward over the long term recognizing that we have to overcome some near-term headwinds to consistently get there.
As we move into the segment performance slides I'll run through the drivers of the third quarter results as well as what we're expecting in Q4.
Turning first to Services.
Services revenue growth was 3% overall with BPO up 1% Document Outsourcing up 5% and ITO up 8%.
Growth rates are playing out as expected with Document Outsourcing showing stable mid-single-digit growth ITO growth beginning to taper and BPO growth being somewhat pressured as we begin to lose organic contributions and continue to absorb the headwind from the runoff of the student loan business.
Looking to Q4 we expect these dynamics to continue with Services growth closer to flat as we hit our most challenging compare on student loans ITO growth further decelerates and we lose inorganic revenue contribution.
Additionally we anticipate some increased volume pressure in wireless customer care.
As we look to 2014 we expect growth will begin to pick up again driven by favorable signings and renewals a strong new business pipeline and a richer and more mature pool of acquisition prospects.
Shifting to profitability.
Segment margin was 9.9% in the third quarter up 50 basis points year-over-year driven by margin gains in Document Outsourcing an easier compare given the prior year government contract write-offs in BPO and savings from cost actions.
Partially offsetting these positives were margin pressure from a less rich mix as we've grown ITO and absorb the impact of the student loan runoff.
We've also seen increased expenses associated with the rollout of our new Medicaid platform and health care exchange operation.
We're very pleased with the successful implementations of these platforms with Alaska's Medicaid Management Information System and Nevada's health insurance exchange both launched successfully this past quarter.
As with many large new programs there's an initial period of higher costs during rollout including noncash amortization of the platforms.
We continue to be excited about these long-term health care-related opportunities and expect to gain scale and experience efficiencies over time.
Looking to the fourth quarter we expect margin pressures to continue with the year-over-year student loan compare being the most challenging of the year resulting in about a $20 million decline in operating profit from that business unit.
As a result we expect Services margins will decline from the relatively strong 11.2% from the fourth quarter 2012 to about 10% with full year Services margins a bit lower than 10%.
So while we're seeing positive trends in key performance indicators we're in a transition period where we're pressured by line of business mix and investments.
At our November investor conference we'll walk through in detail the Services business' dynamics and actions that we're taking to drive sustainable margin improvement.
I'll now turn to Document Technology.
Revenue in Document Technology was down 4% or 5% at constant currency this quarter which was in line with the second quarter as the trajectory of the business stabilized.
Equipment sale revenue year-over-year was up 1% for the total company and down 3% within Document Technology reflecting continued good success from our recently launched products in mid-range and high-end.
Within mid-range we continue to see good activity across the ConnectKey platform.
High-end also experienced good growth in both entry and production color and we continue to feel good about the improving trends and our position in this segment.
Finally in entry once again color A4 MFPs had good growth.
But in total entry continues to be down driven by weaker results in developing markets.
Overall Document Technology margin was very strong at 12.1% up 130 basis points year-over-year and above our target range of 9% to 11%.
On an absolute basis this quarter's finance receivables sale resulted in a $25 million gain boosting margin by about 100 basis points.
However the benefit year-over-year was negligible as we had a similar gain in the prior year period.
Contributing to the year-over-year improvement were cost and efficiency savings and a modest currency benefit from the weak yen.
Looking towards the fourth quarter we expect Document Technology revenue growth down mid-single digits generally consistent with the third quarter performance but with a bit more pressure in developing markets.
In terms of margins we expect they will be down versus the very strong 12.3% from the fourth quarter of 2012 but at the higher end of our 9% to 11% target range.
This incorporates lower finance receivable gains as well as higher pension settlement activity and associated costs as retirees seek to cash in their benefit before a higher discount rate goes into effect next year.
So overall good performance in Document Technology.
With that I'd like to turn to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was strong with $960 million in the third quarter and $1.4 billion year-to-date through September.
Free cash flow was similarly strong at $860 million in the third quarter and $1.1 billion through the first 3 quarters.
While there are some timing differences coming into play year-over-year one of the drivers of our improved performance is better contribution to cash flows from Services which reflects improvements in working capital.
Looking specifically at the third quarter the improvements in operating cash flow year-over-year was driven primarily by accounts receivable which was a source of about $85 million this quarter versus a use of $319 million last year.
The drivers of this improved contribution were improved DSO and a higher level of factoring versus prior year.
Finance receivables although not much of a swing factor year-over-year probably deserves further explanation.
It was a source of a little more than $400 million this past quarter and in the third quarter of 2012 with both periods benefiting from a finance receivables sale.
Looking to the fourth quarter we're planning another finance receivables sale but it will be approximately $150 million or so less than the one that we did in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Considering the smaller-sized sale and the lower collections due to past sales we anticipate finance receivables will likely be a modest source of cash in the fourth quarter which compares to a $260 million worth of cash in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Overall we expect the fourth quarter operating cash flow to be close to $1 billion which is lower than our traditional seasonality due to the expected lower contribution from finance receivables as well as working capital timing which has been more smoothed out this year.
Given the strong cash flow through September we expect to end the year towards the higher end of our $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion range.
Moving down the cash flow report.
Investing cash flows were an $82 million use in the quarter.
We spent $102 million on CapEx; had proceeds of $41 million from asset sales primarily the sale of our Dallas facility; and we spent $24 million on acquisitions.
Cash from financing was a use of $870 million and included the retirement of our $600 million senior note in September.
Also included was $77 million of common dividends and $162 million that were spent in share repurchases.
Moving to the next slide I'll walk through our capital structure and capital allocation plan.
We ended the quarter with $7.5 billion in debt which is $600 million lower than the June ending balance driven by the senior note repayment a portion of which we intend on refinancing.
Applying the 7:1 leverage on financing assets our allocated financing debt is $4.5 billion leaving core debt of $3 billion.
Our financing debt continues to decline driven by finance receivables sales and lower originations.
Our strong year-to-date cash flow and expectation to be toward the higher end of our free cash flow guidance of $1.6 billion to $1.9 billion provides more flexibility with our capital allocation plan.
On share repurchase given the positive cash flow trends we expect that repurchases will be at least a couple of hundred million dollars above our $400 million minimum guidance.
On acquisitions year-to-date we've spent about $160 million relative to our full year guidance of between $300 million to $500 million.
The slower pace of Services acquisitions has put a damper on Services revenue growth.
But as I mentioned earlier I continue to feel good about the quality and progression of the deals that are in our pipeline.
And finally dividends will use about $300 million of cash which factors in our Q1 dividend increase to $0.0575 per share a quarter.
So in summary a good quarter.
Document Technology has stabilized despite some weakening in developing markets but will face a difficult margin compare in Q4.
Services continues to face headwinds that will knock down growth and margin in Q4 but the underlying metrics remain positive and we continue to work hard at improving our cost structure.
As a result we expect that fourth quarter total company revenue will be down a couple of percentage points year-over-year and operating margin will be lower than our prior year 10.6% yielding an expected earnings per share of $0.28 to $0.30 for the quarter bringing our full year EPS guidance to the low end of the range.
Our guidance includes approximately $0.02 of restructuring as well as $0.02 negative impact from the higher noncash pension settlements that I highlighted earlier.
Cash flow has been very strong and we're on track to meet our capital allocation objectives with an opportunity to do more in share repurchases.
And with that I'll turn it back to you Ursula.
So thanks Kathy and here's a quick wrap-up.
Overall the fundamentals of our business are strong.
In Q3 we overcame headwinds in Services to deliver Services profit growth.
We saw a stabilization in Document Technology margins in line with expectations and strong cash flow.
That said Q4 will be a more challenging quarter.
We'll face more difficult compares and continue to absorb health care sector investments while not fully realizing the benefits of our longer-term margin initiatives.
For our fourth quarter we expect as Kathy said adjusted EPS of $0.28 to $0.30.
This includes approximately $0.02 of restructuring and $0.02 from higher pension settlement expenses.
And we are narrowing our full year adjusted EPS to $1.08 to $1.10.
Throughout 2013 we've navigated the headwinds of negative Services mix a slowdown in developing markets and continued weakness in Europe while continuing to make investments in areas of opportunities such as health care.
We have delivered at the high end of our range over the last 3 quarters and with strong cash flow.
In spite of this Q4 is anticipated to be a weaker quarter but I'm confident that we are taking the actions to position us better for the future.
And we look forward to sharing them with you at our Investor Conference on November 12.
Before we open it up to questions let me turn it over to Jim Lesko who's the Head of Investor Relations.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today is Lynn Blodgett Head of Xerox Services business.
Also let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial details to today's -- to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
I had a question on the Services business.
Specifically looking at the operating margin which obviously is below 10% with only about 1% of growth in BPO.
Can you talk more about what you're doing specifically from a restructuring standpoint what kind of changes you're making perhaps in how you're selling or where you're selling balancing the mix? Just how are you going to -- how you're working on improving that.
And then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
So a couple of different things.
First I'll speak to restructuring in the quarter.
We had about $0.02 of restructuring costs Shannon.
About 40% of the restructuring costs were for the Services segment.
I'd say the biggest piece of restructuring that we're doing within Services is continuing to move our mix right-shoring more offshore.
And we've talked about that previously.
I'd say we're making progress there but certainly looking to accelerate that progress which will continue to have some level of restructuring costs associated with it.
In terms of the overall mix of the business part of what we've talked about is we've had negative mix kind of headwinds recently.
We've obviously seen over the past several quarters the fact that ITO has tended to grow at a faster pace than BPO and ITO has a lower margin overall than BPO.
And so that's been giving us a negative mix.
More recently the additional negative mix that we're seeing is just the runoff of the student loan business.
So from a top line perspective as I look out to the fourth quarter that pressures top line by about 1.5 percentage point.
And from a margin perspective that's worth 60 to 70 basis point pressure in the fourth quarter year-over-year.
So that's some of the mix elements that we're seeing that are causing pressure.
But as I look out forward beyond that I continue to point to just overall strong signings really strong renewals strong new business pipelines.
So year-to-date Services -- our signings are up 30%.
And within BPO year-to-date signings are up 40%.
And new business only within BPO on a year-to-date basis is up 8%.
So I think we've got really strong fundamental trends.
So as we look towards 2014 I'd expect to see overall our growth rate pick up and our mix start to improve as we'll begin to lap things like the student loan runoff.
Okay.
And then just again on Services perhaps I don't know if Kathy or Ursula you want to talk about or whoever wants to talk about it the health care opportunity with $2 billion of revenue from health care services and the ACA starting in January.
Can you help to provide some color as to how we should think about benefit from this in terms of both the revenue? And then obviously this quarter we were hit by the startup in Nevada in that.
So how do we sort of balance thinking about benefits from the ACA as we look at 2014? Yes.
So within BPO health care is our fastest-growing area and we're clearly benefiting from our #1 position in MMIS.
So on the Medicare side we're very strong.
We were incredibly pleased that we've been actually standing up the new MMIS systems successfully.
I think if you look in the newspapers recently if there's one thing that's clear standing up these systems is not particularly easy.
And so while it's certainly come with a little bit higher cost that's pressuring margins we continue to look at our overall position in health care and feel very good about the fact that we're participating across a number of different sectors.
We obviously have a very strong position in MMIS in state and local government.
We clearly have a strong payer position on the private side as well as within our support that we provide to hospitals.
So we continue to look at the changes that are occurring in health care generally in part driven by the Affordable Care Act and view it as just a really great opportunity.
And the really nice thing about platforms is while -- when you're putting a new one in place you clearly go through some of the pain of standing it up for the first time.
This becomes a pretty replicable process for us.
And so we certainly think over time we're going to get scale and experience gains in that area.
So we're really excited about these opportunities.
And while I mentioned Nevada specifically as a health care insurance exchange that we helped to stand up we're also behind the scenes participating in at least a handful of others and we're gaining more experience.
And so as more states look to put these in place we view that as an area of incremental growth going forward.
So we continue to be really bullish about this.
I was going to add something but there's nothing else to add.
Kathy said it all.
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk about cash flow.
You guys mentioned several times in the pre [ph] that cash flow was really strong.
And I just wanted to challenge that a bit.
I mean without factoring in selling finance receivables it looks to my math that cash flow is going to be much closer to $1 billion this year than something at $2.4 billion.
I mean I cover a lot of other companies.
We never include factoring in their cash flow and we exclude factoring from finance receivables and then you factor in the accounts receivable line.
And that's not very well understood.
And it would seem to me that once we get done with this factoring then cash flow normalizes in like a $1 billion range and that's below EPS.
And it says something about the earnings quality as well.
And I mean how am I wrong on this? I don't count factoring.
I mean that's like a onetime gain and it's flowing to the P&amp;L as well.
I just -- I don't really agree with this and I want you to deconstruct it and explain how real cash flow is not really just $1 billion.
Yes.
So I'm very happy to talk about this.
So with respect to factoring all the company factors in the very near-term receivables and it's been a practice that the company has been doing for a very long period of time.
So it really has absolutely no impact on the company's core operating cash flow performance.
So all we're factoring is near term call it within the next 60 days.
It's a very efficient program that we have and so the costs associated with doing that are de minimis.
We view it as a very economic...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The finance receivables $850 million this year and you just can't do that forever.
I mean you take out the $850 million from the $2.4 billion and my math is still pretty close.
Yes.
Can you kind of give me a second to walk through my explanation because I'm going to go back to start with? I think your math is completely wrong.
So with respect to factoring again it causes absolutely no plus or minus to operating cash flow.
All we're factoring is the very near-term receivables and we're doing it because it's a very efficient form of I'll call it near-term financing for us with de minimis cost.
If you look at what's going on year-over-year we have a much smoother pattern of working capital this year.
And so we're seeing some year-over-year changes and that's just because we've got a much smoother pattern.
I'm then going to turn to just financing receivables sales.
So we did last year finance receivables sales.
We're going to do about the same amount this year.
That's just a movement in terms of timing right? And overall this year relative to last year it's actually going to be a modest headwind as opposed to a gain year-over-year.
By doing those finance receivables sales we actually kind of trigger a need to pay down debt because our finance receivables actually get a much higher leverage factor.
And so it really isn't anything that ultimately changes our overall cash profile.
And I guess if I get down to sort of the nuts and bolts at least of what some of our investors I think are focused on which is capital allocation and how much excess capital we have to deploy against things like share repurchases as I look out to 2014 while we may have some year-over-year differences in terms of the level of finance receivables sales the company may do I think we're going to have a very consistent and balanced approach in terms of overall capital allocation continuing to look to do a meaningful amount of share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I think that you might want to change that definition to cash flow x financing so we can look at it apples-to-apples.
And I don't think everybody understands it.
I really don't because when you put it in above the line it makes it seem like it's real cash flow.
And it's just a very unique way of portraying it and I would highly suggest that.
And I appreciate the answer.
Yes.
And certainly I think our disclosures on this have been very fulsome.
And if you don't get the math right I certainly encourage you to talk to our IR group after the call because I think...
Research Division</strong> No I think I get the math right.
I think I get the math right.
Your next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Services signings this -- for the past 12 months was up about 9% but fell 7% in the quarter due to the timing of contracts eligible for renewal.
How does the renewal pipeline look like going forward? Do you have more contracts coming up for renewal in the coming quarters that can help drive improved performance in Services bookings? The renewal pipeline tends to be -- it will be a little bit lumpy just based on the exact timing of a particular contract and then 3 or 4 years later when it comes up to renewal.
But in general the renewal rates pretty much average across the average contract life.
And right now we're somewhere between 3 and 4 years.
And you're going to see a little bit of lumpiness from 1 quarter to the next.
But overall if you look at a year -- the cumulation of a year it's going to be pretty consistent.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And as a follow-up the upcoming fourth quarter does pose some particularly challenging revenue and margin comps and operating environment.
Could you talk about how we should think about from a Services perspective revenue growth in 2014 factoring in the headwinds from the student loan processing business and your ramping businesses with the Affordable Care Act? And how we should think about margins going forward if we can continue to expect a step-up in margins acknowledging that 2013 will be somewhat a flat to slightly down with the Services margins? Yes.
And so I'm going to talk a little bit about what we're seeing in the fourth quarter and then I'd say at a high-level expectations for 2014.
But we're going to talk a lot more in detail at our investor conference for 2014.
So if you just look at what we're expecting we're seeing in the fourth quarter clearly the runoff of the student loan business is giving us a big headwind on revenue with that basically worth about 1.5 points of headwind on revenue growth in the fourth quarter.
Acquisitions have historically been kind of a 2% to 3% revenue growth driver for us.
And so if I look at the fourth quarter in the prior year period 2012 it was worth about 2 points of growth and it's going to be worth about nothing in the fourth quarter of this year.
And so that's a near-term headwind.
But certainly as I look out to 2014 we would expect that we'd actually have more acquisitions and therefore more growth coming from that area.
And on student loan obviously we're seeing the biggest impact in the fourth quarter.
And so as we head into next year that impact will be kind of early on a headwind for us.
And then as we get towards the end of next year we'll start to lap that.
As you mentioned in your first question I mean overall we've continued to have really strong signings and renewal and new business.
And so as I look out into 2014 the year may start a little bit slower but we certainly expect that new business and acquisitions will help us to then pick up overall growth.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And how would you think about the margin cadence playing out? Yes.
So in terms of the overall margin cadence as I look forward the impact year-over-year from the student loan business runoff actually abates a little bit next year in terms of margins.
So this year it's worth on a full year basis about 35 basis points of margin headwind.
Next year that's probably closer to 25 basis points of margin headwind.
I think really importantly while we're starting to see some positive pick-up in terms of offshoring that obviously takes a little bit of planning and timing to implement and we'd expect a lot more gains from that as we head into next year.
So I think those are some of the gives and takes.
And then in terms of overall mix typically acquisitions are margin accretive to us.
We're obviously looking to acquire things that have significant synergies associated with them and we tend to target businesses that would be margin accretive.
And the ITO growth slowing that also just will help us from an overall mix perspective on margins.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit on the puts and takes.
And obviously this is an area of a whole lot of focus on from our part and I think we're going to see progress.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with BMO.
I wanted to just ask about Services please.
And if I think about your calendar year EPS guidance the pension expense wasn't in there.
So it looks to me like you're taking down guidance by about $0.02 or $0.01 to $0.02 and yet the printing side of the business outperformed.
So it really seems like the variance was on the Services side.
And so if I think about it it raises the problem from investor's perspective of consistency of execution which in my mind comes back to leadership.
So I'm really trying to understand what changed to cause you to take your calendar year guidance lower.
And specifically student loan was known.
You've talked about that since the March quarter.
So was it the magnitude of the student loan? What -- or was it the ramp down of BPO.
Because as part of this whole I think disappointment in the Services side of the business -- in addition the signings were relatively weak for the quarter.
So if you could just really address what was the disappointment from 91 days ago when you gave guidance on the Services side of the business? So a couple of things I'd say just in terms of new pieces of information.
So a we had certainly expected that we were going to have more from acquisitions in the fourth quarter.
And so while the pipeline looks rich I think deals are maturing.
We had hoped we'd be able to close things sooner than is occurring.
And so that's I'd say a near-term headwind but certainly one as we look out to 2014 that we don't expect is going to continue to occur.
The other thing I mentioned is on the one hand we I think did a terrific job in terms of standing up MMIS systems and the Nevada health insurance exchange.
That has caused some near-term pressure.
I mean those things are not easy to stand up and so we're making more investments there.
Those are a couple of things.
I also mentioned in my prepared remarks that we're seeing a little bit of volume decline on the telecom side.
And so we had a major telecom customer that got acquired by another company.
And as a result of that acquisition they're taking a little different approach.
We're seeing some volume decline.
So those are specifically the things I'd say if I backed up 90 days that I didn't have completely in view.
And I'd also say that as I look at all of those things and I look forward into 2014 and beyond I view them as transitionary and temporary factors.
And Keith as far as leadership goes we have an experienced team.
We bring in on a regular basis new executives into the fold that could help us to refine our implementation and refine our approach to the business and we're doing that every month every day.
We have 2 new executives that are particularly promising.
I won't say their names because then they'll believe they're promising as well.
But -- so I think that we actually have -- I have a very very good view on weaknesses and strengths of our Services leadership team.
And where we have weaknesses we try to augment it or -- and move forward.
So I am actually confident in our Services leadership.
And then the last -- sorry the one more thing I wanted to add is you mentioned kind of weak signings in the quarter.
We already mentioned that on the renewals.
We just had not many renewal opportunities in the quarter.
And so renewals were light just because we didn't have many opportunities.
But year-to-date overall Services signings are up 30% and BPO signings are up 40%.
So I think the underlying trajectory there is very positive.
Okay.
For my follow-up then could you just talk a little bit about what investors should anticipate directionally or any kind of dimensions with Q4 signings? So if you have some idea how signings look for the year.
Yes.
We expect Q4 signings are going to be modestly positive year-over-year.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Digging into the Affordable Care Act a bit more can you remind us of your exposure here across Xerox and help us quantify it a bit better? Because we obviously get a lot of questions on this.
And I'm trying to deconstruct your comments a bit.
Is 2014 a year where you really start to see the steady state net benefits from this exposure? Yes.
I mean overall our health care business kind of across our health care business is about $2.5 billion in revenue just to give you an overall sizing.
As we look forward it is one of the fastest-growing areas that we have within BPO and we expect that to continue to take place.
We've always been and are #1 in terms of MMIS.
As we look at the opportunity of standing up the Nevada health insurance exchange I think that's an area where as states look to move from the federal system and implement their own exchanges that's a great area of growth and participation for us.
We also participate in private exchanges.
So as companies look to move to I'll call it more of a defined contribution approach to how they support health care for their employees and trying to give their employees then a lot more freedom of choice for what they choose to then purchase.
We're also participating in that market and I think that's clearly another area of growth.
And some of the things we bring to the table there is both our ability to stand up for somebody I'll call it a portal for employees to come to and choose an ability to kind of go in and look at their employees' demographics and actually choose providers then that will kind of go into that network that are a good fit for their employee base.
And then we put all of the support around that as well.
So I think those are a couple of different areas where we have really good growth opportunities.
And we continue to be really bullish.
I mean we participate really across this industry.
We come at it from a bunch of different ways.
That gives us a lot of insight.
I think we've been in this business for a long period of time.
We've got a lot of expertise that we bring to the table and we think it's going to be a very good area for us for years to come.
And one of the things that the previous questioner asked is something important to note.
As Kathy said we participate across the board.
If you look at our pipeline our signings our pipeline if you look at the percentage of our BPO and ITO business that is actually focused on health care it's all positive signs which is good.
We kind of surround this from government payer provider employer.
It's a good participation.
It's hard to do.
It's hard to stand them up.
I'm very pleased that we've actually been able to stand up exchanges and an MMIS system actually operating taking customers' calls et cetera et cetera.
It cost a little bit more than we thought.
It would cost -- and that's one of the pressures that we saw in the third and we'll see a little bit in fourth.
But we have done it now.
And so the bulk of the investment won't have to change.
We have to modify for every engagement a little bit of the system but not as big a modification as before.
And that's one of the things that we are learning.
I think other people are learning it as well.
So I'm actually pleased with health care.
It's a big piece of our business and I think we have some proof points that will show it will be good on a go-forward business as well.
Research Division</strong> If I could just have one follow-up another area of Services.
Looking at Document Outsourcing you guys have had a leadership position here in the past.
But the competition is getting pretty intense and we're seeing some pretty good numbers from some of your smaller competitors suggesting they're starting to gain share at a fairly rapid clip.
Given that this is such an important part of the Services business but also an important secular counter to what's going on in the Technology business over time can you talk about how you're looking at your market share momentum here and what you could possibly do to -- to reaccelerate it from here? I'm just going to start and then I'll have Kathy answer some of the details.
We are extremely pleased with Document Outsourcing.
The last 3 quarters last 2 in particular it actually outperformed even our expectations.
The external market actually sees us as a market leader independent assessors do.
And our growth would dictate that we're a market leader as well.
And I don't think that your statement that competitors are gaining share at a pretty rapid clip is actually true vis-a-vis us.
Actually it's not so at all.
So...
Yes I think importantly right we're the folks who invented Managed Print Services.
As a result we've been in this business for a longer period of time.
I think we're much more evolved.
And we have a bigger base of business that we're growing off of.
So rather than having a business that's in its relative infancy where kind of in the beginning you get really big growth rates because you're growing off a very small base.
We have a much more sizable business here to start with and we've been very pleased with our growth rate.
One of the things Ursula just mentioned in terms of third parties taking a look at our offering and putting us against our competitors and really feeling like we're incredibly strong positioned recently Gartner came out with a study showing us that in their metric [ph] quadrant which is where this Managed Print Services Document Outsourcing resides that we actually gained some distance on our competitors recently.
And so that's in part because we have a very fulsome vision and really really good execution in this area.
And as we look at I'll say the synergies between our Services business and our Document Technology business this is really one area where we're continuing to evolve right into workflow from our Document Technology side of the business through Managed Print Services and Document Outsourcing.
And that's a natural adjacency then over to our Services business right where we have Business Process Outsourcing.
So that's where those 2 businesses meet.
We've been at this for a long period of time.
We've got deep vertical expertise.
We feel great about this area of our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Whitmore with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a couple of follow-up questions on topics that were covered earlier specifically around the margin impact from renewals and new business signings.
How did those 2 factors come into play as we think about 2014 margins in Services? In this area I would say it's normal course of business.
We always know as we renew business that we're typically giving some level of discount.
It isn't as if the pressure that we're seeing is any more or less than -- we always understand that as we're heading into this business.
It's all about we stand up new business we get more productive and efficient over the course of the contract period preparing for the fact that we're going to have a price decrease as we renew that business.
So there's nothing new or different in that.
Research Division</strong> When I listen to the puts and takes around Services margins heading into next year it sounds like there's a lot more puts than takes.
So maybe can you clarify do you think margins will be flat or up or down in Services in 2014? Certainly I would say with regard to the fourth quarter of this year I'd agree there's more puts than takes which is why we're expecting to see a year-over-year margin decline.
We're going to talk more about 2014 at our Investor Conference but I would not at all conclude that we'd see more puts than takes as we head into 2014.
And I'd specifically refer to a big opportunity that we have which is to shift more of our labor mix offshore right? So that's a very big opportunity for us and an opportunity that from an execution basis is a bit still in its infancy today takes some planning takes some time to implement but it's certainly something that we're looking to do in a very aggressive way and in a way that we think will be impactful in 2014.
Another thing I would just point to that we're doing where we get secondary benefit from more offshoring is we entered into a strategic relationship with Cognizant who helps us on platform development implementation.
And it's kind of a secondary way for us to get a little bit more offshoring exposure because they obviously bring a lot of that to the table as well as great expertise that's helping us to successfully stand up some of these new platforms.
So just so we're not confused on the puts and takes because I'm a little bit confused on which one is the put and which one is the take or what you mean by it.
I think just so that we're clear on the call I would expect we'll get into significantly more detail on this in November at the investor conference.
But we expect not margin expansion margin improvement to be in the range of 10% to 12% in 2014.
I don't know if you'd consider that a put or a take but that's what we expect to be.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> And a lot of the questions have been focused on the Services which I think is very warranted given what the stock is reacting in the big change there.
So I'm going to again focus on that because I think that's the real struggle.
I understand how you're talking about the trailing 12 months of Services but this quarter the signings took a real big decline year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter and the profitability for both this quarter and outlook appears to be materially below your expectations now dipping below 10% compared to you said 10% to 12% in the lower end of the range of that just a few months ago.
So can you give us one more try of clarity of how we can get assurance that this isn't a perpetual trend? And shouldn't it then just rebound pretty remarkably for signings in Q4 if you talked about timing? Or was it just the first half of the year where it was unsustainably too high? Okay I'll take a couple of different pieces of it and if I don't touch on them all please come back with your follow-up because you had a couple of different things.
So a year-over-year growth in signings for the quarter was down 7%.
It was down because we did not have as rich as high volume renewal opportunity in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis Services signings are up 30%.
Okay so quarter-to-quarter sometimes we have a big renewal opportunity; sometimes we have a smaller renewal opportunity.
This particular quarter we had a smaller renewal opportunity.
But year-to-date our signings overall are up.
If we look overall at some of the pressure we're seeing in margin I'd start with this quarter's margin was 9.9%.
We said we expect it to be at the low end of the range of 10% to 12%.
That's 10 basis points below the target.
Overall for the full year we said we think we're going to be a little bit lower than 10% again a little bit lower.
We're now kind of cutting hairs a little bit.
But on a year-to-date basis our margin is 10 -- I'm sorry 9.8% in Services.
So our margin is a little bit lower.
We're not talking leaps and bounds here.
We're talking a little bit of margin pressure.
And as we look towards 2014 as Ursula just mentioned we're expecting we're going to see margin expansion.
Some of the margin pressure that we're seeing are from factors that their nature is they're going to be short term and we will start to lap them in 2014.
The runoff of the student loan business overall is clearly one of those factors.
The fact that we haven't had any contribution from acquisitions which are typically margin accretive are another one of those factors.
We've had a little more pressure on margins as we have stood up some of these new platforms.
That's not unusual but these things are now going to become for us repeatable processes right? We will get better because of experience and we'll get better because of scale.
So as I look forward into 2014 I think we've got great opportunities in the health care sector.
Overall our year-to-date signings growth has been really positive.
The weak quarter of signings is really just because we didn't have a big renewal opportunity.
So overall I think the underlying factors here continue to be really solid and we're looking forward to margin expansion and our growth rate picking up next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as a quick follow-up so with that expansion next year I assume that also includes the additional cost of ramps the additional cost of Affordable Health Care Act that's coming in and so we are not looking at setting up for 10% to 12% range for expansion.
And then coming back with a justification 3 or 6 months down the road of additional costs of ramping.
I want to make sure you have involved some ramping costs in that.
Yes.
In a normal quarter George -- I mean Jim we would actually -- if there was ups or downs I mean we basically would just cover those in our -- in the range that we have.
So for '14 I would expect that we would do that like we do anything.
We have some volumes up we have volumes down we have start-up costs up et cetera.
This fourth quarter -- this quarter we actually came in pretty close.
I mean it's as Kathy said very very narrow differences.
We came in pretty close to where we expected to come out in margin in revenue in earnings actually a little bit higher in earnings.
Fourth quarter we see headwinds temporary headwinds.
And then in '14 we expect to actually just be in a regular roll like we are in most of the quarters in '13.
And it's important Jim as well that you understand the signings dynamic.
We've had a couple of quarters since we've brought ACS and gotten deeper into the Services business.
We've had quarters where we had low renewals and we've been trying to be very clear about how to actually look at those.
And when you have a low renewal volume they do have an impact because of the way that we calculate this or the industry calculates this.
It has an impact on the signings number.
And that's one of the reasons why it's important to not just look at the quarter which we actually do focus on but to look at all of the signings for the quarter the new business signings for the quarter the renewals that are available and the renewal rate.
And so we try to give you all of that data.
Signings renewals new business et cetera should not be a concern.
All of the numbers look good from a go-forward basis from a revenue perspective in Services across all of the businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First I want to second -- Ben's motion regarding more transparent or cleaner cash flow reporting.
I think just given investors are really focused on that dynamic.
As far as my questions kind of along that same line of thought.
Kathy can you just remind us in terms of what your priority is with the Services business going forward? Is it top line growth? Or is it Services margin? Because I think -- I'm just trying to figure out how you really jump start the Services revenue growth profile going forward.
Is it going to really be about acquisitions? And if it is going to be acquisitions doesn't that kind of steal from capital allocation in terms of stock buyback which has been a big part of investor psychology right now? Yes.
So the focus is profit expansion and I say that's the focus across our entire business.
In terms of how we get to profit expansion I do think that we have a very good opportunity in getting to profit expansion in the Services business by growth as well as by margin expansion.
So there I expect to actually see both things occur.
With respect to acquisitions we've been light on acquisitions.
The reason I've been talking about the fact that acquisition is a factor because it historically accounted for 2 to 3 points of revenue growth within Xerox business services.
And right now we're not getting any revenue growth or profit growth for that matter from acquisition.
But I don't expect it at all to take away from our balanced approach in terms of capital allocation.
Your next question comes from Kulbinder Garcha with Crédit Suisse.
If Kulbinder is not able to pick up I think we are close to our end time.
So I think we should say that's all we have for questions today.
And Ursula do you have anything else you'd like to wrap up with? Yes.
So thanks Jim.
We covered a lot of ground this morning.
So let me bring it up a couple of levels.
Q3 results and our continued focus on squarely and effectively implementing a sound and consistent strategy which is to be Services-led and to grow profitable leadership from our Document Technology business cash generating annuity-based business model to deliver consistent EPS expansion and financial strength to invest in building value for Xerox and in building value for you.
That's our focus.
I'm confident that we'll deliver and hope that you can join us or listen in to our Investor Conference on November 12.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any further questions please contact me or any member of the Investor Relations team.
Thanks so much.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without express permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
Today we're reporting our fourth quarter earnings that are largely in line with the expectations that we communicated last quarter.
We managed the anticipated impact of headwinds in a handful of businesses while we continue to build in the areas of strength and future profits.
Let's begin with the review of the strategy.
Our shift to a services-led company requires us to constantly enhance our offerings and deliver unique Xerox solutions to our customers.
They partner with us because we help them take the complexities out of their business processes.
For example we're simplifying services in government health care with Enterprise our system for Medicaid.
And we're creating smart parking solutions like Merge a real-time analysis-based technology that addresses urban parking challenges.
Our Managed Print Services have been awarded highest honors for global market leadership by industry analyst firms a distinction that validates the strength of our Document Outsourcing business.
In our Services business we are continuing with the implementation of the 5-plank strategy that we reviewed at the November investor conference which includes improving our cost structure while supporting investments in areas where we see opportunity and differentiated benefits for our customers.
We're maintaining our leadership in Document Technology and effectively managing this profitable business with strong cash characteristics.
With a robust portfolio we're capturing market share with new products like ConnectKey.
We're transforming the Graphic Communications business with new workflow and digital automation services and we're growing our channels operation to expand our reach to small and medium businesses.
And across both segments Services and Technology we have a keen focus on profitability.
Delivering on these strategies will enable consistent earnings expansion and strong cash flow which we are committed to deploy in a balanced way that will enhance shareholder value.
Here is a closer look at Q4 results.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.29 and GAAP EPS of $0.25 with the difference being the amortization of intangible assets.
Total revenues were down with Services flat as the student loan runoff continued and we saw no benefit from acquisitions in our revenue.
Services operating margin was lower than we planned.
And although they were driven by known issues which is an area where we need to make more structural progress is a constant focus for us.
Services signings were up 20% for the year BPO and ITO renewal rates were at 92% and above our target range of 85% to 90% both positive results that position us well for 2014.
In Document Technology revenue stabilized with positive results in Global Imaging and Graphic Communications offsetting weaknesses in developing markets and Europe.
Segment margins remained strong and above our target range reflecting strong cost management and expense management.
In total operating margin was down 130 basis points year-over-year.
A decline in margin was anticipated given known headwinds but nonetheless emphasizes why we are undertaking our margin improvement strategy in our continued need for a disciplined focus on operational excellence.
Cash flow from operations came in at the high end of the full year range and we ended the year with $700 million of share repurchases.
As we look to 2014 I'm pleased with the strategy that we've got in place to expand earnings.
I'm confident that we have all that it takes to move our business forward and deliver value to our shareholders.
With that let me turn it over to Kathy then I'll wrap up and we'll open up the call for questions.
Thanks Ursula.
And good morning everyone.
Much of Q4 played out as we expected with the exception of Services margin where we had more work to do.
We hit our EPS and cash flow guidance and got a bit more done on share repurchases.
We feel good about the continued positive trends in leading indicators our strong cash flow and the progress we're making implementing our Services initiative to accelerate growth and improve margin in 2014.
Let's start with a look at overall earnings.
Revenue was down 3% or 4% at constant currency with Services flat year-over-year or down 1% at constant currency and Document Technology down 6%.
For the full year Services was up 3% and Document Technology was down 6%.
Document Technology declines were roughly in line with the full year and Services revenue growth decelerated as we faced a number of known headwinds that we guided to last quarter.
Gross margin of 30.7% declined 130 basis points year-over-year driven by a continued pressure on Services margin from startup of health care platform projects student loan runoff as well as from volume declines with higher pension settlement costs impacting primarily Document Technology.
Our ongoing productivity initiatives drove improvements in RD&amp;E and SAG in line with the decline in revenue.
This resulted in operating margin of 9.3% down 130 basis points year-over-year consistent with the decline in gross margin.
Adjusted other net was $96 million down $74 million year-over-year.
There's a couple of drivers here.
Within OID there's a gain of $29 million associated with the sale of a portion of our Wilsonville Oregon asset and product development resources.
This was a win-win arrangement that enabled us to right-size our resources and further strengthen our 17-year relationship with 3D Systems.
Notably we retained our intellectual property as well as capabilities in ink and print head development.
The gain enabled us to do a greater level of restructuring in the quarter with restructuring of $56 million coming in about $20 million higher than what we originally guided to and $35 million lower year-over-year.
Our adjusted tax rate of 24.5% was in line with our guidance and modestly higher year-over-year.
Adjusted EPS of $0.29 was down $0.01 from 2012 and in the middle of our guidance range of $0.28 to $0.30.
So in summary we were pleased to deliver our EPS guidance but need to make more progress to fully overcome near-term headwinds and deliver sustainable earnings expansion.
With that I'll move to the Services segment slide to review in more detail the drivers there.
Services revenue growth was flat with Document Outsourcing up 4% ITO up 2% and BPO down 3%.
Growth rates have decelerated and are playing out as we expected with Document Outsourcing showing stable mid-single-digit growth and ITO growth tapering consistent with the slowdown in signings.
BPO growth has temporarily gone negative reflecting no inorganic contributions the toughest compare for student loans as well as lower volumes than anticipated in customer care.
We expect Q1 to show modest improvement in growth driven by BPO.
As compares improve signings continue to ramp and we begin to see some inorganic contribution.
Signings in Q4 were once again positive with new business signings up 5%.
Total contract value for all signings was flat due to less renewal opportunity in the quarter compared to the prior year.
BPO total contract value was up 28% in the quarter with strong growth in health care payer health care provider finance and accounting as well as in Europe.
For the year BPO also had strong signings with new business up 9%.
Document Outsourcing overall signings were weaker in Q4 due to less renewal opportunities but new business signings were up 1% and for the year were up 23%.
ITO had lower signings as we continue to see trends toward smaller contract sizes and our focus remains executing on previous large deals and improving our margin.
Renewal rate was also positive at 92% in Q4 and full year which was 7 points higher than the full year 2012.
Our new business signings combined with our strong renewal rate yielded total contract value growth of 21% for the year.
The leading indicators are strong coming into 2014.
Shifting to profitability.
Segment margin was 9.6% in Q4 down 160 basis points year-over-year and a little lower than the roughly 10% we were targeting.
The year-over-year drivers were largely anticipated reflecting the effect of student loan runoff which peaks this quarter and caused us 60 basis points on margin and 1.5 points on revenue.
It continued pressure from our new government health care Medicaid platform and health care exchanges and volume pressure in wireless customer care.
That said margin was a little lower than expected as a result of technology customer care volumes ramping up slower than forecasted and health care platform expenses coming in above our original forecast as we've had to put even more resources towards improving our operational performance there.
At the same time we're in the early stage of implementing our 5-plank strategy in Services that we had outlined at our November investor conference.
We expect benefits from these actions to build throughout 2014 improving trends in revenue growth and margin.
Turning to Q1 guidance.
We expect a modest improvement in Services revenue growth to approximately 1%.
Our margin will be seasonally lower and we expect it to be at about the same level as the prior year margin of 9.3%.
For the full year we continue to expect at least a 50-basis-point margin improvement with the greatest improvement coming in the second half of the year as near-term margin pressure dissipates and the impact of our margin improvement actions accelerate.
I'll now turn to Document Technology.
Revenue in Document Technology was down 6% at both actual and constant currency for both the fourth quarter and the full year.
Equipment sales revenue was down 4% year-over-year in Q4 as relative strength in the U.S.
and mid-range and high-end was more than offset by weakness in developing markets.
The price revenue also declined in Q4 and was down 9% with almost 1/2 of the decline the result of actions that we took to reduce channel inventories.
Additionally our previous finance receivable transactions negatively impact annuity revenue growth.
High-end continued to perform well and had positive equipment revenue growth in the quarter as Color growth more than offset the Mono decline.
We are gaining share in this segment and expect that positive momentum to continue.
Mid-range had another solid install activity quarter.
We had seen strong activity growth for the ConnectKey class of products since launching it last year and we continue to receive very positive customer and industry feedback.
Finally entry revenue was weak driven by the continued weakness in developing markets as well as the impact of channel inventory reduction.
Overall Document Technology margin was quite strong at 11.7% and although down 60 basis points year-over-year reflected the ongoing benefits from cost and efficiency savings and a currency benefit from the weak yen.
The 2 drivers of the margin decline were lower gains from finance receivable sales and higher pension settlement expense.
On an absolute basis this quarter's finance receivable transactions resulted in a $15 million gain contributing 60 basis points to Technology segment margin.
However the gain was $6 million lower year-over-year.
Higher pension settlements activity resulted in $36 million in higher expense for the company the majority of which is in Document Technology.
So overall in-line performance for Document Technology for the quarter.
Looking to Q1 we expect Document Technology to have revenue down mid-single digits and margins up year-over-year.
With that let's turn to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was at the high end of guidance with close to $1 billion generated in Q4 and $2.4 billion for the year.
Free cash flow was $1.9 billion for the year with CapEx of $427 million.
Our cash flow results include a net benefit from finance receivable sales of approximately $130 million in Q4 and $300 million for the year resulting in underlying cash flow from operations of $2.1 billion for the year which compares to underlying cash flow of $2 billion in 2012.
The $100 million year-over-year improvement was mainly due to lower pension funding as working capital was roughly flat for the year.
It should be noted that working capital timing was purposefully smoothed out in 2013 and thus we have less of a benefit in Q4 than prior years.
Looking to 2014 we're maintaining our operating cash flow guidance of $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion.
This reflects our expectation of no finance receivable sales with underlying cash flow of $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion.
The drivers of underlying improvement include Services EBITDA growth as well as working capital gains.
Consistent with our normal seasonality we expect Q1 operating cash flow to be the lowest of the year with forces roughly offsetting uses.
Moving down the cash flow statement.
Investing cash flows were a $53 million use in the quarter.
We spent $111 million on CapEx and had proceeds of $33 million from the 3D Systems transaction and $15 million from the Europe paper deal.
We had no acquisitions in the fourth quarter and spent $155 million on acquisitions for the year.
As previously communicated acquisition spend was tracking below our full year plan of $300 million to $500 million.
In December we announced the Invoco acquisition which expands our European customer care presence but it just closed last week so it will be in our Q1 results.
Cash from financing was a use of $100 million and included the issuance of $500 million in senior notes $71 million in common dividend and $524 million in share repurchases which put the full year repurchases total at approximately $700 million and resulted in a 36 million net reduction in shares for the year.
Moving to the next slide I'll walk through our capital structure and capital allocation plan for 2014.
We ended the year with $8 billion in debt which is $500 million higher than our September ending balance driven by our early December $500 million senior note offering.
Given attractive rates the offering was $200 million higher than originally planned which will prefund a portion of the roughly $1.1 billion senior notes that comes to maturity in May of this year.
Applying 7:1 leverage on financing assets our allocated financing debt is $4.4 billion leaving core debt of $3.6 billion.
Our financing debt continued to decline driven by the finance receivable transaction and lower originations.
Our capital allocation plan is as follows: on debt in light of the $200 million prefunding we expect to refinance about $900 million of the $1.1 billion in debt that comes due in May; on share repurchase we continue to plan to do at least $500 million in 2014 and expect those repurchases to be more evenly spaced through the year; on acquisitions we expect to spend up to $500 million.
With the recent Invoco acquisition we're off to a better start than in 2013 and I feel good about the quality and progression of the deals in our pipeline.
And finally for dividends we're announcing today a 9% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.0625 per share.
This will result in spend of approximately $300 million which is only modestly higher year-over-year as share repurchases have served to help self-fund the increase.
Strong 2013 operating cash flow combined with the lower level of acquisition spend and larger December debt offering resulted in a year-end cash position in excess of $1.7 billion providing upside to our capital allocation plan.
So in summary we enter 2014 on solid footing.
Document Technology is performing well with stabilized revenue declines a strong market position and continued good profitability and cash flow.
In Services we're well underway in implementing our 5-plank strategy that includes not only cost initiatives but also active portfolio management to drive growth and direct investments towards our higher-margin more differentiated offerings.
And we feel good about our cash position cash flow and ability to continue to drive shareholder return through balanced capital allocation.
Looking at Q1 at a consolidated level we expect revenue will still be somewhat pressured and down low single-digits with Document Technology down mid-single digits and services growth modestly improving to roughly 1%.
And for margin we anticipate it will be seasonally lower with Services roughly flat and Document Technology up year-over-year.
As a result we expect earnings per share of $0.23 to $0.25 for the first quarter which includes approximately $0.01 for restructuring.
With that I'll hand it back to you Ursula.
Thanks Kathy.
Our performance in the fourth quarter and for the full year reflected our ability to deliver bottom line results while we continued working to strengthen our operational delivery capabilities for the long term.
Services signings are growing as we continue to win in the marketplace and strive to differentiate our offerings to deliver state-of-the-art platforms and innovative world-class solutions to customers around the world.
On Document Technology business is stable.
We're gaining market share we're keeping cost down and we're delivering advanced products in key areas of the printing industry.
Both of these contribute to a healthy annuity stream that will benefit our long-term performance.
Throughout 2014 our focus will be on executing our Services strategy.
This strategy is designed to promote revenue growth and improve margins.
We continue to plan for at least 50 basis points of margin improvement in the Services segment.
We'll capitalize on the most advantaged segments of the Document Technology business to maintain our leadership position in the industry.
And we'll continue to deliver healthy cash flow during the dynamics of our attractive recurring revenue business model.
With this in mind we are reaffirming our 2014 guidance and we announced today a $0.02 increase in our annual dividend rate to $0.25 a share.
I'm confident that we have the right strategy the competitive strength the dedicated workforce and the disciplined focus on execution to build on our progress.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn it over to Jim.
Thanks Ursula.
Also let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jim Suva from Citi.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on the Services.
It sounds like that you had to invest a little bit more for the health care.
If indeed that is correct if you can confirm it.
And I assume it was probably just you wanted to make sure it pulled off without any bumps.
And that being said can you let us know going forward it sounds like the 50 basis points improvement is still indeed intact.
As we look forward to 2014 in the Services areas are there any more roll-offs or headwinds? I know student loans I think is going to impact by about 25 basis points but anything else like more renewals more large contracts more that could impact pricing? Or do you pretty much have a pretty firm grasp on what's going on with the Services now as 2014 rolls out? I'll start with the health care investments and then I'll turn it over to Kathy for the -- to answer the rest.
Health care you are correct.
We actually made a conscious necessary decision to invest more particularly in the roll-off of the health exchange -- of our health exchange platform in the state that we are heavily involved in that's one investment.
We had already expected which we actually communicated last quarter to invest a little bit more but we actually went even beyond that to assure that we respond to any needs that the clients in the state had.
We'll continue to do that.
I think it will be less necessary as we go forward if you know what I mean.
We're at a level I don't think we have to go very much above.
This is an area that for quarter four we made sure that we didn't step -- we didn't fall any further behind and that we actually serve the client on the ground very well.
Kathy will talk about the 50 basis points in additional headwinds.
And so Jim at this point I think we have our headwinds very well understood and recognized.
And if you look at where we had guided to a quarter ago and talking about what impacts we thought we were going to see I think we were roughly in line there with the only additional pressure that we saw really as Ursula just mentioned and as you mentioned looking to put more resources behind standing up successfully those health care platform implementations that we had.
If I look at the progression for improving 50 basis points in 2014 as we talked about on our investor conference it's naturally back-end loaded as you look at the known pressures and how those known pressures will dissipate during the course of the year.
So a good example of that is I've mentioned that as a result of the implementation of our new Enterprise MMIS platform we're drawing amortization now.
We will lap that beginning in the second quarter and so that year-over-year impact in pressure will start to dissipate.
With respect to student loan right which caused 60 basis points of the pressure in the quarter and 1.5 points of pressure on revenue when we get to the fourth quarter of next year we actually lap the government piece of that business just going away.
And in terms of that margin pressure you're absolutely correct.
It lightens up year-over-year.
And again that's a little bit more back half end loaded which is why you're going to see the progression of our margin improvement throughout the year.
And I'd say similarly in terms of the pressure we're seeing on revenue we feel great about forward indicators and our ramp basically bringing BPO revenue growth coming back kind of beginning towards the end of the first quarter and then building into the year.
So that gives you a little bit on the puts and takes for what we think the progression is going to look like.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as a follow-up for this year any both size or quantity of renewals coming up we should be aware of? Like more than last year or any potential Hey in Q3 we have a lot more than normal or 5 mega deals coming up for renewal.
Anything we should just be aware of conscious of for 2014? So yes the only thing that I would flag is we had a really strong first quarter of 2013 in terms of total signings.
I think the number is $3.7 billion.
And so we have a tough compare in the first quarter.
But there's really nothing else going on in that.
I spoke to a little bit in my prepared remarks the overall kind of composition in terms of mix.
One of the things that we talked about at our investor conference was really a focus on improving mix both taking resources and making sure that we're adequately putting resources where we have high-margin business.
We're trying to accelerate growth data analytics obviously being a component of that continued innovation.
But as you look at kind of the mix of new business and as you look at the overall mix of signings it is skewing towards places where we do have high margins.
And so that again over the course of the year is going to help us to actually mix up.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
So my first question is on restructuring.
I mean you took over $100 million of the restructuring charges this year -- or I guess in '13.
You're planning on taking I think at least that amount in '14 probably.
What -- can you give us an idea of exactly where those dollars are focused how we're seeing the benefit even if not necessarily in margins because of other things that are going on within the business but if you can just sort of give us an idea of what you sort of focus on in '13 and how you're going to shift the dollars and focus in '14? So we get an idea of sort of what support level might be behind some of the margin improvement.
Sure.
I'll speak to the fourth quarter in terms of the restructuring we did in the fourth quarter.
A fair amount of that was targeted towards the U.S.
targeted towards back office.
And then we're starting to see more restructuring within Services and expect that as we progress into 2014 in part associated with looking to shift a greater percentage of our total labor base towards low-cost countries.
On the technology side of the business restructuring is really normal course.
It is what we have to continue to do in responding to the overall pressure of that business to ensure that we're maintaining strong margin.
And so I feel really good about what we see coming in on the bottom line as a result of that restructuring.
And that is a good portion of the total dollars that we spend because restructuring is more expensive on the technology side of the business than it is on the services side of the business.
But we will continue to see that.
And when we talked about it at the investor conference we said that we expect to have at least as much restructuring in 2014 as 2013.
And obviously we've guided to $0.01 of restructuring expected right now in the first quarter.
We did a little bit more restructuring in the fourth quarter.
We started out with guidance of $0.02 we ended up doing $0.03.
But that's going to continue and we feel good about the savings that that drives.
Okay great.
And then Ursula maybe if you can talk a bit about what's going on within both technology and DO in terms of underlying trends.
It sounds like U.S.
is relatively stable but emerging markets are weakening.
Your low-end printers were under pressure but you had strength in color.
So if you can just frame sort of what you're hearing from your customers what specifically is going on why annuity was down 6%? Anything you can provide there would be helpful.
Yes let me give you a -- thanks Shannon.
Let me give you a kind of run around the world from a technology standpoint and then by the line of business and then I'll give you a wrap-up on services.
What we're seeing in the U.S.
in enterprise accounts is a little bit of uptick a little bit of uptick primarily focused around our Document Outsourcing offering.
If you look at the signings there we are seeing no signings U.S.
signings increase.
And I think that's a little bit of a bright spot for us.
We still have to stand them all up implement them et cetera.
So and then in small- and medium-sized businesses in the U.S.
we're seeing a pickup and that's primarily because of our partner in print services as well and also because we have an unbelievable channel there a channel that's doing extremely well and taking share that's our Global Imaging business.
So U.S.
pretty much par for the course fairly normal and working very well in technology and fairly well in services.
Europe you may see a twinkle of light in certain areas but it's pretty much the same.
Business we haven't seen a significant change in the European marketplace up or down throughout 2013.
And our outlook for 2014 is pretty much the same.
We are going to increase our focus on operationalizing some of the cost reductions that we have there.
Some of the restructuring that we have is focused on that area counting on the fact that we're not going to have a big upturn in the economy.
We're just going to continue to drive through efficiencies so we can keep our profitability in that portion of the market strong.
Developing economies is the place that we saw primarily Russia and Eastern Europe are the places that we saw a significant change in trend quarter 3 to quarter 4 significantly.
We saw a change in trend quarter 3 to quarter 4.
Some of that was driven by us.
We literally as we've talked about in the third quarter change and try to drive down our channel inventory actually to protect ourselves to make sure that we actually don't leave a lot of things stranded in the channel.
So we've moved down our channel inventory which dampened our revenue.
But also we saw just market weakness in Russia and Eastern Europe.
It's a big market for us it's a very profitable market for us.
We are still very successful there but just the general overall market activity is lower there.
In Services we are seeing strength in signings in Europe which is a good leading indicator for us.
We started to sign more in Europe signings are up about -- over 20% in Europe which is really good.
We have a good base.
We put in place some activities a year ago a little bit more than a year ago and they're starting to come to fruition.
And the rest of the globe is pretty much normal from a Services standpoint.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about what some of the positives could be to margins during the year.
Is there an incremental benefit you're going to see on the cost side from the yen? And can we also just talk a little bit about on the Services side a little bit more the timing when the -- when like student loan reverses and then what quarters that could be a year-over-year benefit and whatnot? We talked about some of the hits I think in detail in the beginning of the year and if we could talk about the positives as we flow through that would be helpful in both divisions.
And so overall in terms of just positive impacts on margin one of the things I talked about at the November investor conference was an expectation that we were actually going to get some relief on the pension side of the house.
So I mentioned that pension settlement expenses were up $36 million in the fourth quarter.
And a big part of that cost was we printed the discount rate that's used to determine people's pension benefits in August and that was sort of -- I'll call it a blip of an upturn in August.
And so that caused people rightfully who are trying to I say optimize their economics to choose to take their pension at the lower discount rate in December.
And so we had a lot more activity in terms of people coming into what I call the cash register to cash out their pension towards the end of the year.
So we continue to expect we're going to get margin uplift in terms of just overall lower pension expense next year.
We also expect that we'll get some benefit in terms of yen flowing through to gross margin in the technology business.
It's going to be I'd say not quite to the same degree as we got this year.
In total this year we got about a $60 million benefit.
We expect that next year is probably going to be roughly $40 million.
So those are some upsides.
And then as you just talk about other activity that's going to assist us in margin the slowing of ITO growth relative to BPO growth over the course of the year helps us to naturally mix up.
The signings that we're now ramping up and implementing are more heavily weighted towards higher-margin businesses.
So if I went back to the bubble chart that I talked about at the November investor conference those bubbles that are -- they're naturally higher-margin businesses starting to pick up a higher gross rate as a result of positive signings activity.
So those are some of the puts and takes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On the buyback side too is that more front-end loaded? Maybe you said that.
I am sorry if I missed it.
Yes I said today and I certainly said at the investor conference we have an expectation to do share repurchases throughout the year right? If you looked at our activity in 2013 we did a little bit in the third quarter and then we did a whole lot in the fourth quarter and that isn't exactly what we would like to see.
So we're already repurchasing shares this year.
To date as we sit here today we've done about $45 million worth of share repurchases.
But what you should see is more of a steady progression over the course of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from Bank of Montréal.
I have 2 questions.
The first is on a scene we've brought up before and it's labeled "consistency in services." So it doesn't seem like it's changed much in that your Analyst Day was on November 12 and you talked about 10% operating margins there and it came in at 9.6%.
And then I don't think any investors saw it during the quarter certainly from leaving that meeting or any time during the quarter that Services revenue growth would be down 1% in constant currency for the quarter.
So my question is what is Xerox doing to improve the consistency particularly of the Services when -- you have 45 days left in the quarter I think investors would generally say that they're disappointed with the performance of Services relative to the message communicated at the investor event.
So a couple of things.
I'd start with we said that we thought we'd get to roughly 10% margin for the quarter.
At Investor Day I said I thought full year would be anywhere between 9.8% and 10% for the full year.
We're obviously at the low end of that.
And we actually guided to Services overall revenue being about flat for the quarter and so it was flat on an actual basis.
So we're little bit off I would say.
I wouldn't say that we're a lot off.
And overall in terms of the trajectory as we go forward there is a lot that we are changing to improve the overall trajectory of Services.
But there's a number of things that are one-time right? And not I say on a long-term basis systemic to the business.
So when you look at the revenue pressure that we're currently facing student loan and the reduction in wireless coming largely from a single customer account that was very large is a temporary transitional issue.
Similarly M&amp;A which last year in the fourth quarter gave us 2 points of revenue and this quarter gave us nothing and starting to now see that activity pick up this year is again a transitory issue.
If we look at what we're doing in terms of executing our 5-plank Services strategy I'd say our forward indicators look good in terms of improving our mix in business kind of clearly starts part of that strategy.
M&amp;A is off to a better start.
We've got a very keen granular focus and higher level of engagement in terms of really managing the KPIs around the strategy execution.
We're continuing right now to put more resources behind areas of growth.
A great example would be WDS which we've talked about does analytics in our customer care telecom space investing more there more heavily in R&amp;D in order to build additional platforms so that we can go into additional verticals.
So I'd say we're doing a whole lot in terms of really actively managing our strategic execution to ensure that we get the improving trajectory that we talked about in 2014.
Okay.
Well that relates to my follow-up Kathy.
And at Analyst Day you had talked about growth in '14 of 0% to 2% consolidated.
And I just want to revisit on your conviction around those numbers.
But as part of that I was hoping you could talk a little bit about how we should be thinking about M&amp;A contributing to that number.
And specifically if you could talk about how much the deal that you already completed will help in the March quarter? So the deal that we completed I'll give you what we spent on the deal and then I'll help you to roughly size it.
It was a $60 million deal.
With regard to the overall trajectory of M&amp;A we're starting from 0 right? We obviously expect the positive contribution and we expect that to ramp over the course of the year.
We have a fair amount of conviction about not continuing to underspend in M&amp;A with a focus and discipline around ensuring that we do high-quality good deals that are going to drive good returns for our shareholders.
So we feel good about that and making sure that we're focused strategically.
And that we're looking at deals where we're going to have synergies to help us be more competitive on price pressure.
Our pipeline continues to be pretty robust as well kind of up mid- to high single-digits.
And so we feel good about the leading indicators in Services.
Our next question comes from the line of George Tong from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> So yes I saw some fairly healthy metrics in the Services segment over the past 12 months around signings and retention rates and in pipeline growth particularly in the BPO segment.
So looking out in 2014 what areas are you targeting in terms of penetrating growth opportunities? And how should those metrics translate into Services revenue performance? And so if you look at services revenue performance and the fact that we were on an actual basis on top line flat for this quarter guiding to about 1% growth.
In the first quarter we're expecting to see a positive progression from there as we continue to ramp up the positive signing numbers that you referenced as well as start to pick up on M&amp;A activity with one deal already over the finish line right now.
And as I mentioned earlier the composition of the new business that we've been booking and if you look at the composition of total signings it's really skewing more towards higher-margin businesses which should start to give us some tailwind as opposed to a headwind in terms of overall margin.
So payer provider overall retail federal government U.S.
transportation these are all businesses that are already at very good margin.
And the fact that those growth rates should increase relative to other businesses like ITO as an example really should help us in overall margins.
One of the things that I mentioned at Investor Day is 2/3 of our BPO portfolio is already at a 10% or above margin.
So by continuing to look to accelerate growth of the higher-margin businesses we should really start to give ourselves a little bit more help during the course of the year.
And when -- we were not at a 10% margin George government health care is an area that we're not -- we're making progress.
We're really focused as I said in responding to the first question on making sure that we get this right.
And we do not like I said put any additional risk or pressure on any state.
But as we do that we are stabilizing more and more.
And so throughout 2014 this significant investment that we're making -- that we made in '13 and is a trail on with '12 should start to pay off with more accretive performance accretive results to the company.
I'm very confident of that.
We have a lot of energy around it.
And it's not totally visible to -- the detail is not totally visible to the investors but there's a lot of energy behind it to make sure that we get it right and that we don't like I said risk our customers.
And the one other thing I would just add on government health care is we stood up a lot of things in 2013 right? So we implemented a new MMIS platform in New Hampshire.
We implemented one in Alaska.
We obviously have the lead on the Nevada health insurance exchange and we supported a handful of other health insurance exchanges at other states.
So that's a lot of things to stand up in government health care in a given year.
And as I look forward to 2014 we have one MMIS customer that we're standing up.
But on a relative basis year-over-year it is nothing in comparison to everything that we had to stand up this year.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And as a follow-up question do evolving costs to stand up health care contracts alter the individual components of your bridge to get to 50 basis points of margin expansion? And if you can also give us an update on how Project Compete is tracking according to plan? Yes.
And so it really doesn't I'd say overall alter the bridge that I talked about at Investor Day.
I'd say with regard to the progression on government health care I'd already taken into consideration I talked about the amortization of the platform which has a big expense and the fact that we'll lap that year-over-year.
Sorry to the second part of your question George? Research Division</strong> Project Compete.
Yes.
So Project Compete is well underway.
I mentioned it a little bit earlier that we're very engaged in ensuring that we're driving kind of KPIs down to the lowest level in the business.
A great example of that would be Ursula and I were on a call with I'll call it 25-ish folks across the Services organization earlier this week really walking through their KPIs across all of the metrics we're tracking on strategic execution.
Obviously Project Compete is one piece of how we intend to get labor costs as a percent of revenue down.
That's about Project Compete.
It's also about just getting more efficient and more effective implementing technology and automation tools across our customer care centers and the like to just drive overall productivity.
So we feel good about the overall program and are very engaged to ensure that we're well executing there.
Our next question comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The question I have -- both questions actually on Services.
The first one is if you guys are spending so much on M&amp;A your organic growth rate in Services this year is very close to 0.
Is that roughly right or will it actually grow? And what percent of long-term revenue growth rate we should think about in that business once you've gone through this transition period? And then on the margin from Q1 to Q4 let's say as we go through this year in Services actually I wanted to understand that Q1 will be the trough it sounds like.
And then the ramp is a combination of the runoff in offsetting some of the cost initiatives and just standard leverage.
There's nothing else that has to happen to you to let's say do a 11% or slightly above that margin in the fourth quarter in Services? Is that the right way of thinking of it? Yes it is.
So I'll start with the second part of your question.
That's all it is is the ramp over the course of the year and that's exactly how you should think about it.
Obviously with the guidance of our margin in 1Q being roughly the same year-over-year it suggests that we've got to get to reasonably above 10% for the remainder of the year.
But my expectation in terms of the year-over-year ramp is that it's going to start out slower in terms of year-over-year gains and obviously it's going to be second half of the year loaded.
If I then flip back to your first question which started with hey with all of the spend on M&amp;A I mean I'll kind of start there and say we -- it isn't as if we've had a lot of spend on M&amp;A and we certainly didn't guide to a different overall target number really than we've been trying to execute to previously.
So historically M&amp;A has given the company 2 to 3 points in revenue growth.
We're not expecting that we're going to get a wildly different answer in terms of overall growth from M&amp;A.
We're just looking to get M&amp;A activity back up to where it's been historically.
Our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> And I guess 2 from me.
The first one would be can you give us a sense of how we should expect BPO revenue to ramp I guess through this year and into '15? And kind of what the components and the timing of those components are even if the components are the removal of headwinds like student loan runoff kind of the government and commercial as we go into '15? And should we expect or is it your expectation that BPO get back to mid-single digits in '15 or I guess more specifically entering 2015.
And then I have a quick follow-up.
Sure.
So overall I'll start with the last part of the question.
BPO will get up to mid-single digits but that's not where it's going to start at the beginning of the year obviously.
If you look at where we ended 4Q overall in terms of Services right when BPO being down year-over-year and first quarter BPO may be down kind of marginally still but kind of quickly then ramping up to be positive.
So some of the factors in terms of how we lap some of the pressures that we're currently facing right? In the fourth quarter the student loan pressure on revenue 1.5 points.
That's the worst quarter we're going to see.
Overall the way that progresses in 2014 is it gets much lighter when we hit the fourth quarter because that's when we hit the compare in terms of the federal government piece of the overall student loan business going away.
Right now in the fourth quarter the wireless volume pressures that we talked about in customer care caused about 1 point decline in the fourth quarter on revenue.
That will dissipate over the course of the year.
So when we get to the back half of the year that pressure basically falls away.
And then M&amp;A which year-over-year was a 2-point decline on revenue no contribution versus the prior quarter of about 2 points of revenue.
We would expect that will ramp over the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then I guess actually this is my follow-up.
Then as we get into '15 are we -- what are the headwinds that remain in '15 of the ones [indiscernible]? Yes.
So the only headwinds are the things that we talked about that we'd expect in 2015 is student loan is 2 pieces.
And I just talked about the government piece which when we get to the fourth quarter of '14 we totally lap that business going away.
So overall student loan portfolio will continue in slow decline so we will still have a negative impact when we get to '15.
But it's not going to be anything near the numbers that we've been talking about.
So we're calling attention to it obviously because it's having a big impact right now.
By the time we get to 2015 yes there will be an impact but it's nothing near what we're talking about now.
All right.
In addition and by the time we get to 2015 a lot of the contracts that we signed in '13 and '14 will have ramped.
We're seeing that benefit today just early portions of it.
Particularly our technology customer care business that's actually doing very very well.
That's going to ramp.
And by the time we get through 2014 it will be at the ramp stage.
Yes.
And we're obviously focused talking about BPO or BPO/ITO.
With respect to Document Outsourcing Document Outsourcing new business signings were up 23% this year as well.
And strategically we're incredibly strong -- strongly positioned there.
I've talked about previously the fact that Gartner has put us in a "Magic Quadrant." We've got a new leader which is well positioned there.
So that also will assist us on the Services segment.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Is Lynn Blodgett on the call right now? No he's not.
He's dealing with personal medical situation.
We expect him back on the next call.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
I'll hope the best for his recovery there.
The reason I ask I just think it's just been pretty point-blank here today about how important Services is.
I was just hoping we could ask a few questions of him but we'll wait until another day on that.
But maybe I can just talk a little about the Services M&amp;A ambitions here because it was definitely absent last year and that was always kind of one of the hallmarks of ACS in terms of the M&amp;A funnel or activity.
What has changed now? You're feeling a little more confident we can move forward with acquisitions.
Did it have to do with just given that the cost structure in order or the balance sheet in order? Or do you guys have to assemble a new team under Kathy's leadership around M&amp;A and integration and all that stuff? I'm just kind of curious what's changed in that.
Why you're feeling a little more confident about making M&amp;A.
I'll have Kathy respond to the actual operational piece and how she does it.
Let me just make sure that I make clear what did change in M&amp;A from a strategic standpoint when we acquired ACS.
We are significantly more pointed about what we want to acquire.
Margin accretive global expanding innovation-based acquisitions are what we are after.
That selection funnel obviously makes it harder than before we have that funnel.
So I think based on history of ACS and what we know about the margin progression and growth progression of this business that funnel is the right funnel.
Kathy will talk about the pipeline that we have in M&amp;A better.
Let me get it over to her now.
Yes so I started we have one deal over the finish line [indiscernible] that I spoke about.
We spent $60 million.
That's already a level that's higher than what we did last year because while we did 3 deals they were all quite small.
When I first joined the company I would have told you that the pipeline was light.
And as you know M&amp;A just kind of ebbs and flows.
Our pipeline has built over that period of time.
It matured.
We obviously have 1 deal that's over the finish line.
We've actually added resources into that M&amp;A group.
And then I'd say the other thing we're doing is working really closely with the businesses in trying to generate what I call non-brokered deals.
And so looking for our pipeline to also have a number of deals that we have been through the business kind of courting over a period of time to just improve our success rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up if I could.
Can you help us Kathy understand for 2014 in terms of EPS guidance how much is predicated on the increase in offshore in -- of labor within the Services business? Is that a big part of EPS in terms of the support or a backstop or is that more for 2015? Certainly over the course of the year we expect overall looking at our labor costs as a percent of revenue to give us a fair amount of help in EPS.
A piece of that is clearly moving our footprint more towards low-cost centers.
But another piece of that is just getting more productive and more efficient.
And we do that both by literally shifting work into low-cost countries and also through attrition just hiring up in low-cost countries and trying to shift that without necessarily incurring restructuring charges.
So for sure it's meaningful but it is not the only piece that we're focused on in terms of getting our labor costs down.
Our final question comes from the line of Bill Shope from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I have 2 questions actually on the Technology segment.
Could you give me -- give a bit more color on the developing markets comments you made earlier? And given the volatility we're seeing in some of these regions can you comment on whether or not we should think about just adding any material lift to the stabilization process we've seen in the Tech segment as we progress to 2014? I would say not material and not continuous.
We have a long history in developing economies in general.
That history shows us that it does come and go.
The good news is that we have a big base of business in many different areas around the developing economies you know them all.
This quarter second half of this year this has been pressured in Russia and Eastern Europe.
Our fundamentals are good there and we're not losing share.
We're participating in a fairly [indiscernible] where as the economies start to improve we expect -- or the regulations start to improve or whatever drives the changes in Russia and Eastern Europe starts to improve we'll participate as we normally do which is in a leadership way.
And the only other thing I'd say is DMO developing markets as a percent of total Tech revenue is not really high call it between 12% and 13%.
And we have a quite good history of managing profitability there when we see revenue decline.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question would be a bit more clarity on the supplies inventory situation.
Was that -- I'm not sure if I misunderstood this.
Was that primarily because of the DMO weakness or was that a broader-based inventory correction? And then I guess off of that are you comfortable that you're fairly done with that process now? Yes so we're comfortable we're fairly done with that process.
I mean we were working towards it in the third quarter.
And so in the fourth quarter we had a bigger impact.
It shows up in DMO and also in indirect channels so that's where the inventory change takes place.
And then DMO just overall was a little bit softer.
I think this is something that we initiated and it's I think it's is a good business practice for us to be on given the volatility that we see in general and in the world.
And so we just wanted to make sure that we didn't have a lot hung up through our partners.
And so we made the decision to pull this back.
And it definitely did impact the SMB segment and DMO but I think it's a good business decision to make.
Thanks Bill.
And that's all the time we have for questions today.
Thanks for your interest.
And Ursula anything more to wrap up? Yes let me just wrap up with 2 points.
Thanks for joining us today.
It was good to hear from you.
I said this earlier but I think it's worth repeating.
We are focused on delivering on the strategies that we've outlined which enable consistent earnings expansion and really strong cash flow cash that we are committed to deploying in a balanced way and enhance the shareholder value.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
And if you have any further questions please contact me or any of our Investor Relations team.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Michaels Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the express permission of Xerox.
After the presentation there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
Today we're reporting our first quarter 2014 earnings that reflect the benefits of our diversified portfolio and improved performance across a number of areas including ITO Document Technology and Document Outsourcing.
And within BPO our commercial business especially commercial healthcare showed good results.
We did have challenges in the quarter especially in the area of government healthcare which I'll get to in a few minutes.
So let's begin with a review of our 2014 priorities.
The first priority is growing revenue.
Today Services represents 57% of our revenue and we continue to expect that number to grow to two-thirds by 2017.
The shift over time will drive improved revenue growth.
To realize this growth we need to strengthen and differentiate our portfolio.
We participate in some very attractive segments of the Services and Document Technology market.
We are investing in these areas to increase the value we bring to our customers.
I was very encouraged by what I heard from our customers a few weeks ago at our event called simple@work.
Over 800 customers had to see all that Xerox have to offer.
The innovation we're bringing and the commitment we have to solving their real-world business problems.
What I heard from them was very positive.
They are eager to understand all of our offerings and work more with Xerox.
Another priority for us is to improve our cost structure and eliminate areas of underperformance.
We've made great strides on this in Document Technology over the past few years and we're on the path to do the same for Services.
Key to executing on these priorities is having a strong team to drive long-term results.
We have a very seasoned team of executives with good subject matter expertise and we have brought in proven leaders to broaden our perspective and execution capability.
A few weeks ago I announced the appointment of a new head of our Services business Bob Zapfel and the retirement of Lynn Blodgett.
I want to thank Lynn for his service and dedication to Xerox and welcome Bob who is with us on the call today.
Bob and his team are focused on the areas where we know we can and must improve.
He will lead the implementation of our Services five-plank strategy which includes driving our cost initiatives while supporting investments in areas where we see opportunity and benefits for our customers opportunities like global growth where we are seeing progress.
And across both segments Services and Document Technology we have a keen focus on supporting our customers our investors and our people.
Our final priority is to continue to focus on capital allocation to deliver shareholder returns.
We have a business that – with very strong cash flow and we're committed to deploying that cash in a balanced way to drive shareholder value now and in the future.
Moving on I would like to share my perspective on Q1 results a few positive takeaways from the quarter.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.27 which was above our guidance.
Operating margin was up year-over-year by more than a point and operating profit grew double-digit driven by Document Technology and Document Outsourcing as well as improvements in commercial BPO and ITO and we generated over $250 million of cash in the quarter which positions us well for our full-year objective.
We repurchased $275 million in shares and we're increasing share repurchase expectations for the year.
Some challenges did persist on a couple of fronts.
Revenue declined 2%.
Although this is an improvement from quarter four and is within our expected range for Q1 is below our full-year objectives.
So we'll need to continue to see improvements especially in the second half when we lapsed some of the near-term headwinds.
And we came up short in Services margins which I know is an area of keen focus for investors and I can assure everyone an area of intense focus internally.
The shortfall is driven by incremental costs incurred in our Medicaid and health insurance exchange implementation.
Kathy will add more detail but know that we are committed to doing what's needed to get these systems stood up and we're confident that these investments will pay dividends down the line in this very attractive market segment.
As we deal with challenges in this business and work to remedy the issues for the future we need to reset our guidance expectations.
We'll go through the specifics in a moment.
It is important to note that we're making margin progress in other areas.
For instance we saw good margin improvement year-over-year in our commercial BPO and ITO businesses.
And I'm extremely pleased with the revenue growth and margin improvements in commercial healthcare but we have much more work to do.
With that I'll turn it over to Kathy and then I'll wrap up and we will open the call for questions.
Kathy? Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start by walking through our earnings.
Overall we were pleased with our growth and operating profit and the related operating margin improvement in the quarter.
Our core operating results came in a bit better than expected driven by strong margin expansion in our Document Technology segment with the gain on the sale of real estate and lower tax rate also aiding our EPS beat versus guidance.
We saw a positive results and trends in a number of areas within Services but disappointing results within our government healthcare business cost us to miss our Services segment margin guidance for the quarter and adjust down our Services margin expectations for the year.
I will walk through this in greater detail when we get to this segment review.
Revenue in the quarter was down 2% at both actual and constant currency.
This was better than the 4% constant currency revenue decline in Q4 as both Document Technology and Services revenue growth rate modestly improved.
Gross margin of 30.2% was down 30 basis points year-over-year as improvements in Document Technology was not enough to offset the incremental pressure on Services margin.
Ongoing productivity initiatives as well as lower pension expense yielded significant improvements in both SAG and RD&amp;E.
As a result our operating margin expanded 110 basis points to 8.6% enabling operating profit growth of 13%.
Moving down the income statement adjusted of the net was $72 million an increase of $59 million year-over-year.
The drivers of the increase were higher OID and higher restructuring expense.
OID was up year-over-year; the largest factor was that this year's gain of $30 million associated with the real estate sale was less than the prior-year's $37 million litigation reserve reduction.
We've been working on the real estate sale for some time and expect that it would close in 2014 but a bit later in the year so it aided our beat this quarter.
Restructuring was $27 million which was $35 million higher than in 2013 and about $0.01 higher than our guidance.
Adjusted tax rate of 22% was in line with 2013 and under our guidance due to favorable high resolutions which were a discrete item in the quarter.
Adjusted EPS of $0.27 was flat year-over-year and above our guidance range of $0.23 to $0.25 with the upside coming from Document Technology profitability the real estate gain and tax rate partially offset by higher restructuring.
With that I'll move to the Services segment slide to review those results in more detail.
Services revenue growth was flat year-over-year which was a modest sequential improvement from Q4 when Services revenues were down 1% to constant currency although it was short of our 1% growth target.
Document Outsourcing continues to grow mid-single digit.
ITO was slightly up and BPO was down a couple of points as good growth in commercial healthcare and international were offset by student loan runoff lower volumes in customer care and transportation and less inorganic contribution.
Turning to signings.
Signings were up 1% on a trailing 12-month basis but were down year-over-year.
As we highlighted on our Q4 call we had a challenging signings compare this quarter as our Q1 2013 was one of our highest signings quarter in recent memory.
That said signings in the quarter were a bit softer than we expected.
New business signings were down 7% year-over-year as we saw some decision delays and shift of contracts to Q2.
New business pipeline remains very strong up 9% and we expect sequentially higher signings in 2Q although once again we faced a relatively strong year-over-year compare.
Total contract values from renewals were quite a bit lower year-over-year despite a renewal rate of 91%.
Both new business and renewals can be lumpy and the lower renewals in the quarter were a function of fewer renewal decisions.
So all in all renewals aren't a concern and we would have liked to have seen a little bit better new business growth but we feel we're well-positioned as we enter the second quarter.
Shifting to profitability segment margin was 8.6% in the first quarter down 70 basis points year-over-year and lower than our target of 9.3%.
The year-over-year decline and outlook shortfall is driven by incremental costs associated with the rollout of our new government healthcare Medicaid systems and implementation of the Nevada healthcare exchange.
The work involved with implementing these new platforms is significant and we faced greater challenges than anticipated getting new clients to a good level of operating performance and then costing down the ongoing maintenance of the program.
While we're making progress on improving our operational performance it's costing more than we expected and it's going to take us more time before we can lean out the resources supporting these projects.
We're making good progress in other businesses within Services.
Excluding the higher than anticipated government healthcare costs Services margin would have been flat year-over-year with improvement in Document Outsourcing and our commercial businesses where we saw benefits from our cost actions roughly offsetting headwinds from student loan runoff and lower volumes in some areas.
Turning to guidance we're resetting our expectations for Services.
On revenue we continue to expect Services revenue growth to improve sequentially as we move through 2014 driven by signings ramps moderation of headwinds impacting BPO and greater inorganic contributions averaging mid-single-digit growth in the back half of the year.
Taking into account the slower start with flat revenue growth in Q1 and later ramp in new business and acquisitions we believe full-year Services revenue growth will be approximately 3%.
Given the Q1 margin performance and expectations for continued higher costs in government healthcare we expect full-year Services margin to be down and in the range of 9.4% to 9.8% which should compares to our original expectations for a 50 basis point improvement to approximately 10.3%.
Government healthcare was an area where we had expected good year-over-year profit growth specifically in the back half of the year when we expected to get significantly reduced costs.
Our Q1 experience was just the opposite as we had to dedicate incremental resources.
We're taking a number of actions to address the issues.
In the past few months we've brought in a new leadership team for government healthcare an experienced Chief Development Engineer from our technology group as well as Bob to run Xerox Services.
We're enhancing our program management under a single-point of accountability that also serves to enable quicker learnings across different implementations of the same platform.
We know it's going to take us longer and will cost us more to get these implementations right and we're committed to do that in support of both our current and future customers.
I'll now turn to Document Technology.
Revenue in Document Technology was down 4% at actual currency and 5% to constant currency.
We saw consistent performance in the U.S.
some improvement in Europe and ongoing weakness in developing markets.
Equipment sales revenue was down 4% year-over-year and supplies were down 3% year-over-year and improved sequentially from down 9% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.
In addition our previous finance receivable transactions negatively impacted revenue growth by about a point.
Looking at our products group high-end had positive equipment revenue growth again this quarter driven by strong color install activity.
Midrange also continues to show good color install activity driven by ConnectKey.
Finally entry although impacted by weakness in developing markets did show improvement from the fourth quarter.
Looking to margins Document Technology margin was very strong at 12.2% which was 340 basis points higher year-over-year.
This improvement reflects the ongoing benefit from cost and efficiency savings lower pension expense and a currency benefit from the weak yen.
In addition we had a relatively easy prior-year compare.
The strong margin performance resulted in operating profit growth of 34% despite the revenue decline so good overall performance for Document Technology.
Looking toward the second quarter we faced a more difficult compare especially in equipment revenue given the timing of last year's ConnectKey product launch and we continue to expect Document Technology to have revenue down mid-single digit with good margins although most likely not at Q1 levels.
With that let's turn to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was quite strong at $286 million in the quarter which compared with an $87 million use of cash in the first quarter of 2013.
The year-over-year improvement was driven by working capital.
Accounts receivable and accounts payable were the largest factors year-over-year reflecting in part timing benefits related to our efforts to continue to smooth out working capital.
Inventory was better year-over-year as we had higher than normal buildup of inventory in the first quarter of 2013 related to the ConnectKey launch timing.
Moving down the cash flow statement investing cash flows was $120 million use in the quarter.
We spent $103 million on CapEx and $54 million on acquisitions.
In January we closed on Invoco a German customer care company which supports our international expansion.
We've had a better start in M&amp;A this year.
But had hoped to get a bit more done by this point.
The pipeline continues to look good and we're close on a few opportunities so our full year expectation to spend up to $500 million in 2014 is unchanged.
Cash from financing was a use of $349 million and includes $275 million spent in share repurchases and $74 million in preferred and common stock dividends.
Wrapping up cash flow we have a good start and our full year guidance remains $1.8 billion to $2 billion of operating cash flow with the more even distribution through the year.
Q2 cash flow will be down year-over-year but overall cash flow for the first half should be roughly in line to the prior year.
Moving to the next slide I'll walk through our capital structure.
We ended the quarter with $8 million in debt which is consistent with our beginning of year balance.
We have $1.1 billion in debt coming due in May $200 million of which we pre-funded as part of last December's note offering.
We plan to refinance the remaining $850 million throughout the year.
Applying 7 to 1 leverage on customer financing assets our allocated financing debt is $4.4 billion leaving core debt of $3.6 billion.
Financing debt has come down over the past few years driven by the finance receivable transaction as well as from lower originations.
As we've previously indicated we don't plan to do any finance receivable transactions this year and thus we expect finance debt to be relatively stable.
We manage our core debt to maintain a leverage ratio consistent with our investment grade rating.
We continue to expect to end the year with about $7.8 billion in total debt with the reduction simply reflecting the $200 million that we pre-funded last December.
Additionally it's worth noting that we amended our $2 billion revolver to extend it through 2019 with more favorable pricing.
We feel good about our stable capital structure and if we move to the next slide I'll review where we are on share repurchases and dividends.
Our strong cash flow and beginning of year cash position enabled us to repurchase $275 million or 25 million shares in the quarter.
We now anticipate doing at least $700 million in share repurchases for the year.
Share repurchase has been a consistent element of our capital allocation plan for the past few years and as a result we've reduced shares outstanding by net 17% since 2010.
As part of our commitment to creating value for shareholders we announced last quarter a 9% increase to the quarterly dividend to $0.0625 per share which is effective for common dividends payable on April 30.
We'll spend about $300 million on dividends in 2014 so combined with share repurchases we're targeting to return at least $1 billion to shareholders this year.
Before I turn it back to Ursula I'd like to summarize our expectations for Q2 and full year.
We're pleased with the performance of Document Technology and expect continued strong margins albeit likely lower than Q1 and relatively stable revenue declines with a somewhat more difficult compare in Q2 given the timing of last year's new product launch.
So overall Document Technology is on track with full year margins expected to be up modestly year-over-year.
Within Services we're seeing good results in document outsourcing commercial healthcare international and other commercial BPO businesses reflecting the progress we're making implementing our five-plank strategy for improved margins and growth.
But required additional spending in our government healthcare business has triggered a revision to our guidance.
We expect Q2 Services revenue and margin to improve sequentially with lower margin year-over-year given the strong 10.2% prior-year compare.
As I mentioned earlier year we expect to be between 9.4% and 9.8%.
At the consolidated level for Q2 we expect revenue will decline approximately 2% and adjusted earnings per share of $0.25 to $0.27 which includes approximately $0.02 of restructuring.
And for the full year given the change to our outlook for Services we now expect consolidated revenue to be flat to slightly down year-over-year and adjusted earnings per share of $1.07 to $1.13 which compares to our previous full-year guidance of $1.10 to $1.16.
With that I'll hand it back to you Ursula.
Well thanks Kathy.
I want to get to your questions so I'll quickly summarize our performance.
First quarter performance reflects how our portfolio mix benefits our business.
Our profits in Document Technology helped offset the shortfalls that we faced in government healthcare solutions.
Our distribution and international expansion is extending our reach to more customers around the world and our strong cash flow follows us – allows us the flexibility to increase the value we bring to customers by investing in growing vertical markets.
We are consistent in our priorities and our focus.
We continue to strengthen our management team and we are executing on our five-plank strategy in Services designed to promote revenue growth and improved margins.
Despite the current pressure on government healthcare we are optimistic about our healthcare business overall.
There is good growth and profitability on the commercial side and room for improvement on the government side.
We will capitalize on the most advantaged segments of the Document Technology business to maintain our leadership position in the industry and we'll continue to use our healthy cash flow to deliver shareholder value.
Thank you.
And now over to you Jim.
Thanks Ursula.
Also let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I ask participants to limit yourself to one follow-on question so we can get to everyone.
At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Bill Shope from Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thank you.
So I have a question for Bob whom I believe you said was on the call and perhaps Ursula as well.
Given the challenges and the volatility we've see in the Services segment particularly on the margin line could you give us some early thoughts on the changes we might expect to see in the management of the business and how that'll hopefully produce more predictable results going forward? Why don't I start and then I'll turn it over to Bob.
One of the important things that we did when we outlined the five-plank strategy was to do that from a broad-based leadership perspective so not only in Services but including the leadership of the company the CFO head of strategy and myself and obviously the head of Services.
So the strategy that we have in place for margin improvement and revenue growth in Services is one that is in place and will continue.
What we realized at the time though is that we needed to change our implementation process and cadence.
And we did a couple of things there one is a structural change inside which is not that much interest to the external world but was really important to how we manage the business for transparency and clarity across many different lines of business and many different implementations.
Second and probably first for most was we look at our leadership team and the capabilities that we had their and made sure that we understood if we had any gaps and if we had gaps we actually went out to fill them.
Three areas we had to look at to improve and we did.
One was we brought in a new head of our government healthcare business and he has brought in leaders underneath him to help assure that we can have this standard of limitation across the many different implementations that we have around the nation both in MMIS and in our health information exchanges.
The second thing that we did was we actually moved some technical resources that we have from our Technology business to our Services business to manage this platform these platforms which are fairly complicated.
And the third and most important that we started searching for and we brought on Board a new leader to actually implement the five-plank strategy somebody who had experience in doing this type of management structure and process and that was Bob.
So let me now turn it over to Bob now.
Thanks Ursula.
Bill I would just add I mean I had a good opportunity before coming and joining the Xerox team to really in the due diligence understand the five-plank strategy and it really matched my experience space in terms of how do you drive value for clients by transforming your delivery model? Services is at the core a delivery business and we're still in the relatively early part of a journey but a journey that is very well mapped out to drive best practices across our units through improved process standardization automation to take work out of the workflow and leveraging a global talent pool.
So on your question of volatility I really think as we mature our process we will be even more predictable and it was part of what made Xerox and the Services business very attractive for me personally.
Okay thanks and congrats on the new role Bob.
I guess outside of the Services segment the Technology business we're obviously seeing some positive surprises.
Should we be –I understand that this quarter was sort of a bit of an outlier in terms of the margin strength but should we be thinking about tech segment margins that are potentially sustainably above the range as you've given us in the past when we think about modeling longer-term? So I'm not going to attempt to give 2015 guidance this early in 2014 but we're really pleased by the performance that we're seeing in the technology business.
We had commented in the back half of last year that the Technology business had really stabilized and we have a great focus on driving profitability and margins in the Technology business with ongoing restructuring plans.
So we feel good about the margin we produced this quarter.
In my commentary about the second quarter I clearly said we expect continued strong margins albeit expect it to come down a little bit from where we are in Q1.
So overall we're really pleased.
We expect will be up a little bit year-over-year in Technology margins and we expect continued good performance there.
Thanks Bill.
If we could have our next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
Thank you.
I had another question on Services and maybe Bob wants to jump in or Ursula.
As you look at what's happened in Nevada and the challenges and that has it changed your thoughts regarding government healthcare opportunities? And sort of how do you view the landscape given what we've seen not just at Xerox but obviously other companies as well? I'll take it and Bob can follow up if there's a need for it.
The government healthcare market is relatively large and it's definitely growing and the demographics are all tailwinds for it all in the favor of government health.
The majority of our healthcare business is not government healthcare and the majority of that is not new platforms.
And let me just break it into two parts so that we can parse out where we're having the challenges and what we're doing to fix it and therefore I think it will help you understand why we're still so bullish on the market.
MMIS is one large amount of engagement that we have.
This is a long and historic business for ACS and now Xerox.
It's Medicaid it we've been in it for many many many years and we've been managing on a platform that's an old platform.
When the platform is in it lasts for many years 10 15 years plus.
And after you stand it up the business on an ongoing basis is very predictable and very profitable actually very profitable.
Where we are today on Medicaid is that we are implementing a new set of platforms around the nation.
The most famous one is California which we are engaged in.
We've been engaged in for many years and California is going fairly well and MMIS is actually going pretty well and we're now at the point where we're starting to lean out our implementation on California and drive it to increased profitability.
MMIS we also have some new implementations as well and those new implementations which some of them started late last year a couple later this year and one in 2015 and more to come I'm sure will be going through the same process of implementing the new platform and then leaning it out and driving it towards profitability.
MMIS is an area that is a challenge but it is not a large concern for us.
We know our path forward there.
The place that is the biggest challenge for us right now is the health information exchanges and it is the one that we lead on and that's Nevada.
And what we this is a brand-new platform it's a one-of-a-kind implementation for us so far to-date this is the only place that we've done it.
It has not gone well.
We are working very hard and closely with the client to make sure that we do two things.
One is stand it up to the client assurance and comfort that we do that.
We're doing that very well and aggressively with leadership in Nevada but also lean it out as we go forward.
That is taking a lot longer than we thought as Kathy said and as I said and as you're hearing probably when you read the newspapers.
It's taking a lot longer than we thought and is taking more resources than we thought.
As we lean that out we will do the same thing.
As we stand it up we'll lean it out and then we'll drive it toward more stable operation and profitability.
On health exchanges as well though we're involved in a lot of other states in varying ways.
Not implementing the platform but handling transaction processing handling call center doing some specific modules and health exchanges in six or seven states.
They are going very well.
So the focus area for us in health exchanges is fixing Nevada.
We do that we should be able to actually glide on a go-forward basis in the implementations that – following the implementations that are going well.
And on MMIS it is literally just about continuing on the improvement path that we're on which is very good already and driving towards profitability.
So it's a good market a growing market and one that I don't think that we can actually step away from.
I know that we can't step away from because we have a history of success in this business.
Great.
Thank you.
And then my next question is just for Kathy.
You've maintained cash flow guidance but your lowering Services margin.
So you can just give us some ideas of what's supporting that decision where the incremental drivers of cash flow will come from? Sure.
And so I'll start with our first quarter cash flow was very strong performance I feel good about where we're starting the year.
If you look at I'll call it overall income obviously bringing down Services margin that is that we partially offset by pretty strong margins that we're seeing within Document Technology.
And even within Services some of the reduction in overall income is coming from slower implementations which are a non-cash change that we're taking.
So overall that plus top line is coming down a little bit more and that gives us another working capital benefit.
I feel really comfortable we'll be able to hit our full year guidance.
So we're not going to see nearly as much flow through to cash flow as you're seeing kind of from the income statement.
Thanks Shannon.
We go to the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes from Barclays.
Yes.
Thanks a lot.
Can you just talk also on cash flow about your efforts to smooth it out meaning make it less volatile? Obviously the cash flow in the first quarter is a greater percentage of the total than usual and what's going on there as well to make it smoother as we go throughout the quarters? And will you still have the big hockey stick in the fourth quarter Kathy? We will still have in the fourth quarter a big push Ben.
What you're seeing is largely payable timing being smoothed out during the course of the year.
As I look at our first quarter I feel really good about gains that we're making in terms of just receivable days outstanding which I'm certainly expecting are going to hold for the year.
So while you'll see sort of quarter-over-quarters sort of year-over-year movements that's going to just result in a little better cadence of overall cash flow during the course of the year.
So we're still going to be I'll call it seasonally peaking in 4Q but yes less though than you've seen us in past years.
Okay.
And then I was just trying to quantify the hit from the new guidance on the EBIT line.
I was thinking just backing into your Services guidance it's like $60 million to $80 million and less operating profit in terms of when you add up the revenue the lower revenue and the hit.
And then I was wondering is there an incremental restructuring on top of that which also accounts for the lower guidance for the year? I'm just trying to tally it up to get to the $0.06 or to the $0.03 or so in the range and trying to get the EBIT numbers right.
Is that about the way to think of it? And what is the incremental restructuring versus what you are thinking on previously before this call again? Yes.
And so we had given guidance on restructuring kind of roughly similar year-over-year and that really hasn't changed.
If you look overall in Services we're taking the biggest hit in terms of operating earnings there as a result of the change in Services margins coming down.
So we had initially said we thought we'd see a 50-basis-point improvement.
If you look at the range I'm now providing in the middle of that range it would be down 20 basis points so call it a 70-basis-point change relative to where we started.
That's worth about $80 million in terms of overall operating profit.
Now I expect Document Technology is offsetting a little bit of that right because we clearly saw really a strong first quarter gains in terms of overall margin and I suggested I thought we'd be up modestly now in Doc Tech margin year-over-year.
And so you're getting a little bit of an offset there.
And then if you just kind of look to what other things changed to get us to a full year change just call it down $0.03.
We're doing a little bit more in share repurchases.
So we started out a little stronger in terms of the timing of those share repurchases and we've upped our guidance now from $500 million to at least $700 million.
And so we get a little bit of pickup there as well.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for that.
That was good detail.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Ben.
If we could have the next question please? Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
Hi.
Thanks guys for taking the question.
I guess hey the first one for me Ursula is and then maybe Kathy just sort of could you walk through the contribution or I guess the sort of different buckets of impact to the Services growth for the quarter and what you think the underlying reason for this were and I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Okay.
I'll go ahead and take that one.
When I look at top line we had initially targeted that we thought we'd be up 1% and we ended up being flat.
There's really two different things contributing there.
Slower ramp so both within some of the healthcare implementations that are taking us a little longer so the new ones that we're standing up are having a slower ramp.
And we saw a little bit of overall volume decline specifically within transportation that's in part weather-related and also due to some slower ramp there.
And then finally I point to M&amp;A.
While we started out the year stronger than we did in 2013 we're still getting a relatively low contribution from M&amp;A less than half a point and that's clearly below where we'd like to see it.
So while I feel good about the pipeline we're close on a couple of opportunities I still feel good about our ability to get closer to spending $500 million for the year.
It's coming on a little slower than we had hoped.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then I – with regard to buyback and congrats on raising the rates there I guess what philosophically how should we think about you executing the rest of the buyback through the year? I think the idea was to do it more ratably through the year this year commensurate with cash flow and you had a really strong Q1.
So sort of how should we think about strategy on buyback? Yes.
I think that's exactly how you should continue to think about it.
In contrast with last year where we really did essentially all of our share repurchases in the back half and very heavily weighted to the fourth quarter we intend to continue to be in the markets throughout the year with our share repurchases.
Thanks Ananda.
If we could have the next question please? Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from Bank of Montreal.
Hi guys.
I'm going to follow on Ananda's question on growth and I was hoping for my first question if you could talk about your confidence surrounding Kathy I think you said 3% revenue growth in Services? And while you're doing that if you could address a few things; a) the bookings looks – was weak this quarter and I think you said it's going to be down on a tough compare.
What does that suggest about the longer-term growth b) pricing and then c) also ITO? I question the strength of ITO as we get to the back half of the year when you're really I think anticipating a pretty dramatic increase to mid-single digits in the broader Services category.
So if you could perhaps just talk about your confidence interval on Services and then I have a follow-up.
Thank you.
Okay.
So on Services I feel really good about our renewal rate 91%.
We had a 92% renewal rate last year.
In this quarter our new business was a little softer than I had hoped down 7% for the quarter.
We had some things that's taking us a little longer to get the contract on.
I feel pretty good about second quarter clearly mentioned that we expect to see sequential improvement.
We do have a tough compare.
I mean in the second quarter of 2013 we were up total contract value 40% year-over-year so it's a little bit of a tough compare from that perspective but we should benefit from the strong signings that we saw last year.
And so overall I continue to feel really good about our organic growth and I like some of the places that we're seeing good organic growth.
In the first quarter we had double-digit growth in Europe overall within Services and a piece of that was inorganic but even our organic growth was actually up double digits so very strong growth there as well.
So we're feeling pretty good about the sequential improvement that we expect to see over the course of the year.
And again while I said M&amp;A started out to a slow start I feel good about the pipeline.
We've closed on a couple of deals.
And then finally some of the other things we're doing we mentioned in our Investor Day last November that we have a big push on improving our overall mix of business and so you referenced ITO growth slowing which has clearly been expected and anticipated by us.
We're adding a number of sales people into the businesses where we have higher margins.
We recently announced hiring another 60 sales people so we're making investments to ensure that we get the organic growth we're expecting.
Okay.
Thank you Kathy.
For my follow-up just philosophically Xerox has had a couple quarters of disappointment in Services and you're bringing in new leadership exciting new leadership.
How do investors take some comfort in the fact that Bob's having a new role will be digging underneath the covers and will could uncover some additional areas that he's not comfortable with is the guidance the right guidance? In other words you're asking Bob to step into a position and you're providing guidance at a position which presumably he hasn't had a chance to really dig underneath the covers? Or is that an inaccurate perception and we should assume that Bob's kind of blast these numbers and this guidance? Keith this is Bob.
So no I have – I would say that in the first 22 days here I have been through these numbers in excruciating detail.
I've had a good chance to be out with clients and with the Xerox team as well.
But no I'm on the call and on the hook and I think from an investor standpoint we appreciate that you're going to measure us based on our results.
So – but this is not a – I'm not inheriting somebody else's call in terms of what we're committed to deliver.
The 100 000 person Services team and I are on the line for what we've covered on the discussion today.
I'd be excited to add a little bit to that Keith when I look at the first quarter and kind of peel back the layers of our performance the additional spending we had within government healthcare was truly what caused us to miss our guidance on Services segment margin for the first quarter.
If I look across the business I mean we had very good margin expansion in document outsourcing we had margin expansion in ITO; we had margin expansion in commercial BPO.
Obviously our government transportation business is where the student loan pressure shows up.
But overall we're seeing exactly what we expected in terms of Services margin expansion outside of the government healthcare solutions group.
It's an important point.
I'll just ring in here Bob has been here for 21 days fortunately came on board right during the time that we have to actually look at our go-forward commitments and so he was actively involved there one bringing up what Bob said and what Kathy said.
If you look at the parts of the business excluding government healthcare or the part that we called that would come down in government transportation solutions group literally we're expanding margin in every other line of business.
The biggest business that we have commercial BPO which is about 75% of our business margins expanded to the point where we had planned them to.
ITO they did as well in document outsourcing they did as well.
So we do have an isolated issue here it's a big one one that we're in front of but not one that causes us to adjust the rest of the business areas and the path that we had going forward there.
All right.
Fair enough.
Thanks guys.
You're welcome.
Thanks Keith.
Pick up the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva from Citi.
Hey.
Thank you very much and I guess concluding comment is hey it could've been a lot worse.
So anyway I guess you could laugh about that a little bit.
But when I think about it is it really that Xerox miss estimated the amount of person bodies and hours it needed to be on this to get this state healthcare exchange up and running? Is it the state is asking you to do more than what were originally planned or it's more complicated than what you thought? Or how come Xerox seems to be the one eating all the costs on this? Or am I just misunderstanding the key issues here? So it is a combination of many things and I would not – I don't think it's fair the government would think Nevada would think that we're the only ones eating all of the costs here.
I think that they probably feel a little bit of a sting as well.
But it's a combination of things.
One it is clearly that we miss estimated and I will say that we miss estimated the amount of energy and effort that it would take to.
One get the system defined right this is jointly between the state and us one to do that.
And then once you get that to stabilize it to the point where the operations are predictable that we can understand what volumes would come in at what time what number of people would try to enroll on certain days.
Something that you've seen unfortunately across a lot of the health exchanges is just the flood of people on any given day or any given time is just not predictable.
So we had something to do with just not understanding fully – not predicting fully what could happen at any given time.
But it's also change in requirements it is a new set of laws that we're trying to develop a system around it's a combination of many things here.
But I want to make sure that I leave the call with understanding that Xerox is responsible for it and has to be responsible for fixing it and we're going to do that on behalf of the government of Nevada and that what we'll do.
MMIS is different we're pretty comfortable with what we have to do there we have a couple of implementations that are going fairly well we know how to lean it out we know how to move it's taking a bit more time but it's not as unpredictable as Nevada has been.
Okay.
And then Kathy made a comment about M&amp;A and the pipeline being strong there.
You had M&amp;A continues to come in softer than expected and many investors like the M&amp;A and the accretiveness of it.
Kathy is it just so much of your effort has been diverted to trying to fix the Services business? Or why would this M&amp;A additions continue to take longer and longer and longer and yet the pipeline continues to be healthy and healthy it seems like there's some type of disconnect there about we've heard the story before and what's the delay here? So I'll start with M&amp;A actually started out stronger this year than it was in 2013 so while I am also pointing to M&amp;A as we had hoped to get more done at this point than we've been able to get done on a year-over-year basis just the Invoco deal alone is an exit of the Services deal that we did in 2013.
So it isn't that M&amp;A isn't improving and on a good track it's just not going as fast as we would desire it to go.
And it's more timing I would say than revising our overall expectations in terms of what we think will get done this year.
And so we have one decent sized deal I'd say under our belt we did another deal but it was relatively small in this quarter and so it's not going to give us all that much in terms of revenue and profit.
But we've closed on a couple of things and I do feel good about our ability to get more done.
And Kathy is not distracted.
I mean she has a team that works on this that is pretty much separate from the rest of the operational areas of the business.
We are focused on this at a level of intensity that is pretty high.
We're not going to do as we say all the time we say it continuously.
Any deal that we don't think we can manage and bring in comfortably into the company and we're not going to do a deal that doesn't fit into strategic growth areas that we have and we do have a pipeline that's pretty good now.
And as Kathy said some that are tipping towards the end in the coming quarters.
I would just add that I think our process is really strong.
So on your comment on whether people would be distracted.
We largely wouldn't be looking to do it in the space where we've had the government healthcare solutions problems that we've talked about so extensively.
And I would say the process in terms of the discipline what's the economics how does it fit from a growth standpoint is very strong.
So they don't happen overnight and we still have more that we see that will be able to drive.
Thanks Jim.
We could have the next question please? Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of George Tong from Piper Jaffray.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Kathy you touched on this earlier but could you provide some additional color on the progress of your various margin initiatives in Services outside of healthcare in terms of productivity initiatives and off-shoring efforts? And if you were to think about excluding healthcare sort of giving us a sense of what margins for Services would be for the full-year? So I'll speak a little bit more to the quarter as opposed to the full year and then I'll come back to circle back to the full year.
So I really appreciate the question because overall the additional costs and resources we've had to pour into government healthcare really overshadowed I think the good progress that we're making elsewhere.
Clearly we had pointed to in our Investor Day in November a big push on I'd say bold shifting labor offshore in order to get benefits from those lower costs as well as just improving efficiencies overall.
Really both of those things targeted to try and get labor costs as a percent of revenue down which is a big part of the push towards margin expansion.
And so I feel good about the progress that we made in the quarter there again excluding the incremental cost that we poured into government healthcare both in terms of moving people offshore and hiring more offshore as we attract people in the U.S.
But I’d say especially George in terms of just getting enhanced productivity and putting more money to work in terms of restructuring.
So I feel very good about that other planks of our five planks strategy international expansion I think the Invoco acquisition and ongoing organic growth seems to be going very well.
I spoke to some of the things that we're doing to push up growth rates organically in some of our more advantaged businesses with higher margins.
So as I look across our five-plank strategy I feel good about what we're doing to execute and if you put government healthcare aside that was worth 70 basis points in the first quarter.
If you look at the adjustment we've made to full year it's basically a 70-basis-point adjustment on full year from where we had originally started thinking we were going to get 50 basis points of expansion.
So I think we're on track in terms of making progress outside of government healthcare.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And for my follow-up question Ursula could you discuss the leverage you're seeing from past government healthcare platform implementations and what kind of leverage you expect once Nevada Health Exchange and other current MMIS implementations have been fully stood up? Right.
So what we – we have a business where we actually operate MMIS systems in 12 states today plus the District of Columbia maybe a little bit higher maybe 13 states but 12 states plus the District of Columbia.
We implemented those states under platform from many years ago and those states and the operation of them smooth operation and very profitable business for us and very happy customers in the state.
Each platform as I said take a little bit of time to stabilize obviously a little bit more difficult than on the new MMIS than on the old one.
They last a very long time a decade decade and a half easily and if you look at our history there.
We expect as we stabilize the new MMIS enterprise platform in the states that we have won and that we continue to compete for that we'll have a mirror essentially a mirror of the government health MMIS business that we had in the past on a go-forward basis.
If we didn't do a new platform by the way we would not be able to compete very effectively for this business so it's a necessary thing to do to hold our position in the enterprise space.
On health exchanges we operate in a number of states six or seven states generally in a partnership fashion a consortium fashion with other providers doing other pieces.
In those implementations we are humming along they're delivering as we expect the profitability in the model is that as we expect in Nevada as I said in the new exchange that's the place that we're going to have to stabilize.
And it'll take us a little bit more time to do and we're figuring it'll take us for the rest of the year to get this all straightened out and so that's interesting.
So I think healthcare historically government healthcare historically and on a go-forward basis it will be very profitable and is very attractive.
And we continue to expect it to be.
Commercial healthcare is the winner for us already growing revenue ahead of where we expect and expanding margins so a commercial healthcare broad participation there a big business for us actually bigger than government healthcare business and a very profitable business for us.
So we expect this whole space of healthcare to actually be a good business for us continue to be a good business for us as we go forward.
Thanks George.
We can have the next question please.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse.
Thanks.
I just want to ask a question really about the cost of these government contracts in the sense that it looks like if your margins [have been revised] (ph) it would have been sliced it probably cost about $20 million more than it costs this quarter maybe $80 million for the year.
Are those in the ballpark firstly? And then beyond that as you win new government business I'm trying to think about the synergies you might have and could it be the case that next year you go for more this type of business you win more states or more exchanges or how do you want to describe it on those costs meaningfully drop to zero? Or would there be an on going level of cost that just Xerox obviously have to go through a learning curve? I know it's going to be a hard question to ask because every contract is different.
I'm just trying to think of what level of visibility you have as you try and build out this government business? Thanks.
So let me start with first you mentioned hey was government healthcare going to cost you about $20 million in the quarter and about $80 million for the year? And my answer to that is yes year-over-year.
It did cost us $20 million in the quarter and as we look to full year and our revisions to Services margins which I talked about earlier that is for us to now anticipate and build into our overall guidance and expectation of just higher costs in government healthcare throughout the year.
As we look forward to incremental implementations our expectation would be that we will get better at incremental implementation.
I mean as we are bidding on new work we are taking the learnings that we have today into consideration and looking forward and bidding on new specifically MMIS platforms in other states.
As it relates to Nevada I think it's really important to understand we actually participate in a handful of other state healthcare insurance exchanges.
We just don't play this role in terms of being the primary on the implementation of the platform.
And in those other states we're doing really well in terms of supporting call center work and other BPO claims processing work and the like and so that continues to be I think both a strong business for us today and a good opportunity on a go-forward basis.
Thank you.
Thanks Kulbinder.
Can we have our last question now please? Thank you.
Our final question for today comes from the line of Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll try and be quick.
I just kind of want to build on a couple past questions.
First the confidence in the second quarter signings you mentioned some customer decision delays.
Can you elaborate on that? Is that cyclical and broad-based and has that persisted in April? And I have a follow-up.
And so if we look at signings in the second quarter we're expecting we're going to see sequential improvement relative to the first quarter but the other thing I mentioned is we also have another tough comp year-over-year.
So last year the signings number was about $3.7 billion and at that point it had been up 40% year-over-year so I'm expecting good sequential improvement.
Okay.
Then just the higher cost tag the government healthcare maybe had a lot of questions.
It feels a little bit like déjà vu to me but any risk in meeting SLA milestones? Is the state cooperating? And then just trying to understand if you're spending enough.
I know $20 million is a big dollar amount but I just wanted to make sure we're covered here in terms of any other future surprises? So I think from the MMIS perspective I'm very comfortable that we're spending what we need to spend.
MMIS spreads across many different states so small increment spending.
First data I think we have that pretty well comprehended.
In the Nevada exchange we have comprehended a fairly big chunk of additional spending throughout the year and I think that we've comprehended that well in this go-forward guidance.
So I don't believe that we have much additional upside or downside depending on how you do it downside in margin or upside in cost.
We've actually comprehended a fairly large amount for the rest of the year.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
That's all the time we have for questions today.
Thanks for your interest.
And Ursula anything more to wrap up? Thanks.
Xerox is focused on serving our customers very well a major point of pride and cause for my optimism and confidence in the coming quarters.
We'll focus on the customers and assuring that they're doing well.
I'm confident that we have the right strategy the competitive strength a skilled and proven leadership team with some new exciting members and the motivation to help our customers to be more successful.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have further questions please contact me or any member of our Investor Relations team.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Xerox Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the express permission of Xerox.
After the presentation there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
Today we are reporting second quarter 2014 earnings that continued to reflect the benefits of our diversified portfolio and strong cash flow.
We remain focused on our priorities and we are making progress.
This quarter we saw a return to growth in Services and the business is well-positioned for sustained improvement.
Services is now 57% of revenue and we are on track to reach our target of two-third by 2017.
This important shift will drive overall revenue growth.
Our Document Technology business drove strong profits again this quarter and continues to be an important for us generating cash and profits above expectation.
We continue our initiatives to improve Services profitability.
We are seeing good profitability improvement especially within areas like document outsourcing our commercial BPO business and ITO businesses including healthcare and international services.
We know that more need to be done especially in government healthcare where we continue to stand-up a new Medicaid platform and deal with a couple of challenging contracts.
So this remains a top priority.
And of course both segments Services and Technology we remained focused on our important stakeholder with the keen attention on supporting our customers delivering value for our investors and making Xerox a great place to work for our people.
In the quarter we invested $227 million in acquisitions.
Welcoming into Xerox the employees and customers of Smart Data Consulting and ISG Holdings.
ISG is a leading provider of workers compensation software in the U.S.
This acquisition will expand our significant present in the healthcare payor and insurance BPO markets and we continue to invest organically in areas where we see good market opportunity such as in private health exchanges we have a differentiated offering for large employers through Buck Consultants at Xerox.
We have a business that delivers strong cash flow.
This gives us flexibility to not only invest for growth but also build short and long-term shareholder value through a balanced approach to capital allocation that includes share repurchases and dividends.
To execute on our direction we have a strong team.
Jeff Jacobson was recently named the President of our Document Technology business taking over from Armando Zagalo de Lima who is retiring after 31 years at Xerox.
I want to thank Armando for everything that he has done for Xerox.
He has put our document technology business on a solid foundation by transforming the organization to be more customer-focused profitable and well-positioned to adapt to changes in the market.
Here to look our results and my perspective.
As I mentioned earlier there are bright spots and positive trends but we still have work -- more work to do.
We reported adjusted EPS of $0.27 which is at the high-end of the range that we said.
In the quarter we saw improvement in Services revenue growth.
Services revenue was up 2% that’s up from flat growth last quarter and the business is trending well.
Document Technology revenue had higher declines in the quarter as expected given timing of last year’s product launches.
It is in the range of expectations for the first half and we are very excited about upcoming product launches.
Our operating margin is up year-over-year driven by strong margins in Document Technology the result of continue good operational discipline and focused on productivity.
As anticipated though we did see margin decline in Services due to the pressures that we are experiencing in government healthcare.
We took a non-cash charge in the quarter and are making progress transitioning out of some challenging contracts.
Kathy will provide you with more details in a few minutes.
We are continuing our activities to create shareholder value using our strong cash flow which is up over $150 million for the first half to repurchase shares at a steady pace supporting a growing dividend and acquiring companies that enhance our Services capability.
We have a talented and dedicated team and we are keeping our stakeholders at the center of all that we do.
Our goal is to provide excellent product and services and deliver the operational results that are expected of us.
With that I will turn it over to Kathy.
Then I will wrap up and we will open the call to your questions.
Kathy? Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
Overall we feel about our sequential program with the number of the themes from quarter one carrying through to quarter two.
We continue to show operating profit growth driven by strong margin expansion in Document Technology and we had good operational performance in the majority of our Services businesses.
As expected the government healthcare business continues to pressure Services margin as we invest in rolling out our Medicaid platform.
Additionally we took incremental non-cash impairment charges driven by the transition out of the Nevada Health Insurance Exchange.
I will cover all of these dynamics in much greater detail when I review segment performance.
First I'd like to begin by walking through our earnings.
Revenue in the quarter was down 2% at actual currency and down 2.5% in constant currency.
Segment revenue trends were as expected with Services revenue growth improving and Document Technology weaker as we face a challenging year-over-year compare due to last year’s product launch timing.
Gross margin of 30.8% was down 70 basis points year-over-year driven by the Services margin decline as well as the greater mix of Services.
We again saw a significant improvement in both SAG and RD&amp;E as we benefit from productivity initiative as well as lower pension expense.
These improvements more than offset below our gross margin and resulted in operating margin expansion of 30 basis points year-over-year and 110 basis points sequentially and enabled higher operating profit year-over-year.
Moving down to income statement adjusted other net was $14 million higher year-over-year.
The increase was split between OID which was $9 million higher year-over-year reflecting a real estate gain in the prior year and restructuring which is $38 million was $5 million higher year-over-year and in line with our guidance.
Adjusted tax rate of 27.7% was 360 basis points higher year-over-year and just above our guidance range of 25% to 27%.
So overall there was a modest year-over-year headwind below operating profit.
Adjusted EPS of $0.27 was flat year-over-year and at the high end of our guidance range of $0.25 to $0.27.
Looking at the first half adjusted EPS of $0.54 was also flat year-over-year operating profit grew 6% in the first half despite the pressure we are seeing in our government healthcare business and when combined with lower share count more than offset higher restructuring costs OID and a higher tax rate.
So all in all I believe we are making progress obviously with more work yet to do.
With that I will move to the Services segment slide to review those results in a little bit more detail.
Services revenue growth once again improved sequentially and was up year-over-year 2% or 1% in constant currency driven by a pick up in BPO which went from down 2% in Q1 so up 1% in Q2.
Good growth in commercial healthcare and internationally and better inorganic contribution was partially offset by a negative 1 point impact from the continued June loan run-off as well as headwinds from lower customer care volume.
Trends in document outsourcing up 3% and ITO up 1% were largely consistent with prior period.
Turning to signings signings were lower year-over-year especially renewal.
The combination of a low renewal rate that was below target due to the Texas Medicaid law and the lower overall renewal opportunity resulted in renewal signings contract value down more than 35% in the quarter.
New business signs were better story up double-digit sequentially but down 4% year-over-year and flat on a trailing 12-month basis.
It should be noted that we did see some contract shift to the second half and we had a couple of large contract awards that won’t be close until later this year.
New York Medicaid for instance is not in these numbers.
Our new business pipeline remains healthy up 4% year-over-year and we expect better signings result in the second half.
Shifting the profitability segment margin was 8.6% in the second quarter which was flat sequentially and down 160 basis points year-over-year.
A year-over-year decline was expected but we’re below our guidance of sequential margin improvement.
The miss was due solely to the impairment charges we took in the quarter associated with our health insurance exchange platform including non-cash charges related to the Nevada contract.
We didn’t formally adjust out the $20 million net impairment charges but if we exclude it our segment margin would be 9.2% which is in line with our expectation for continued sequential improvement.
So we’re beginning to get closure on our Nevada HIX contract and will be working with the state to continue to support the 2014 annual release and comply with their decisions to transition to the federal exchange for the next year's open enrollment.
Turning to our Medicaid business the second quarter performance was largely in line with our expectation as we continue to incur higher cost associated with launching our Medicaid platform and getting it to operational maturity.
We’re making progress.
We had positive references and we’re winning new business in the market.
This is an area where we expect lower margins in the intermediate term as we drive improvements in our other implementation.
Within the rest of services we’re seeing improved performance.
I was very pleased with our margin performance in areas like commercial healthcare document outsourcing and IPO.
So our five-plank strategy and cost initiatives are driving improvements in many parts of the business and should continue to ramp as we move through the second half of the year.
Turning to Services guidance.
On revenue second half growth will be negatively impacted by the losses of the Texas Medicaid contract which is worth roughly 1.5 points of revenue growth.
The rest of BPO improved and will also benefit by greater in organic contribution.
We now expect to exit the year with a lower single-digit growth rate.
On margin our expectations are largely intact.
We expect sequential improvement through the year putting aside non-cash impairment charges.
The third quarter should coming in above 9.2% and we expect to exit the year comfortably above 10%.
In terms of full year Services margin we expect to come in at the lower end of the 9.4% to 9.8% range reflecting the non-cash charges that we took in the second quarter.
I’ll now turn to Document Technology.
Revenue in Document Technology was down 6% at actual currency and 7% at constant currency.
This was higher than last quarter's rate of decline and as we highlighted during our first quarter earnings call this was anticipated given the timing of last year's product launches.
That impact drove the higher rate of decline for equipment revenue with annuity revenue showing a consistent 4% decline in both quarters.
Looking at the first half Document Technology revenue was down 5% or 6% at constant currency which is in line with expectations from mid-single digit decline and includes an approximate one point negative impact associated with our previous finance receivable transactions.
From a geographic perspective trends were generally consistent with our last quarter with the U.S stable Europe improving and developing markets still weak.
Looking at our product group activity levels were lower as we save the challenging ConnectKey compare and some large wins in the prior year on graphic communications.
In addition the timing of this year's product launches are more back half weighted which we believe will position us well later in the second half and into 2015.
Planned launches include the recently announced Versant's entry production color product extension of our ConnectKey platform within our mid range portfolio and into entry as well as a refresh of the number of entry desktop product.
Document Technology margin in the quarter was 14.4% which was 360 basis points higher year-over-year and continues to run above our long-term expectations.
Our strong profit performance reflects ongoing benefits from restructuring and cost initiatives.
In addition transaction currency and lower pension expenses boosted our performance by 200 basis points.
This quarter we also experienced more favorable mix and lower pricing impact.
The strong margin performance resulted in operating profit growth of 25% despite a revenue decline.
So overall it was a good quarter for Document Technology.
Looking towards the third quarter we continue to expect Document Technology to have revenue down mid-single digit with good margins although below the first half as we invest in the launch of new products that I mentioned earlier and also expect to have a less favorable impact from mix and some of other variable factors.
With that let’s turn to the cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was strong at $325 million in the quarter following a good Q1 results.
Through the first half cash from operations was $611 million which was $165 million higher year-over-year.
Underlying cash flow which excludes the impact from prior year finance receivable sales was $437 million in the second quarter and $846 million for the first half.
It should be noted that the timing of operating cash flow generation was more balanced between Q1 and Q2 for the first half of this year versus last.
And we're continuing to work to smooth out our working capital flows.
The drivers of the higher year-over-year first half cash flow improvement include lower uses of cash for accounts receivable and inventory and higher cash earning.
Partially offsetting this positive is less contribution of cash flows from finance receivable which reflects the negative impact of the prior-year finance receivable sales.
Moving down the cash flow statement investing cash flows were $326 million used in the quarter.
We spent $123 million on CapEx and $227 million on acquisition.
We closed in May on ISG which complements Xerox’s current business with the top 20 U.S.
property casualty and commercial health insurance company.
The acquisition pipeline continues to look good and our full year expectation to spend up to $500 million in 2014 is unchanged.
Consistent with our portfolio management strategy this quarter we divested truck load management solutions a small non-core business within services transportation.
Cash from financing with the use of $561 million in the quarter and included $299 million in net debt payment $204 million in share repurchased and $79 million in preferred and common stock dividends.
Ramping up cash flow we had a good first half and our full year guidance remain at $1.8 billion to $2.0 billion of operating cash flow with the more event distribution through the year.
Second half cash flow will be down year-over-year as the prior year included $384 million in proceeds from finance receivable sales in the third quarter and $270 million and $247 million in proceeds in the fourth quarter with no sales activities planned in 2014.
That said second half underlying cash flow should be more consistent on a year-over-year basis.
Now I’ll walk through capital structure.
We ended the quarter with $7.7 billion in debt and in line with our original guidance we continue to expect to end the year with about 7.8 billion in total debt.
Applying 7 to 1 leverage on customer financing assets our allocated financing debt is $4.4 billion leaving core debt of $3.3 billion.
We managed our core debt to maintain a leverage ratio consistent with our investment grade rating.
Our financing debt has come down the past few years driven by the finance receivable transactions as well as lower origination.
So we feel good about our stable capital structure and if we move through the next slide I’ll review where we’re at on share repurchases and dividends.
With a strong first half cash flow performance and relatively high beginning of the year cash position we’ve been able to steadily repurchase shares during the first half for a total of $480 million or 42 million shares.
We continue to view our shares as a good investment and anticipate doing at least $700 million in share repurchases for the year.
Our full year guidance for dividend payments remains $300 million in 2014 and reflects our current quarterly dividend of $6.25 per share.
When combined with the share repurchases we expect at least a $1 billion to be returned to shareholders this year.
Before I turn it back to Ursula I just like to summarize our expectations for the third quarter and the full year.
We were once again pleased with the performance of Document Technology and for the third quarter we expect margins to be at the high end of our target range with mid-single digit revenue declines.
Given the strong first half profit performance we expect full year margins to be at least a point above our target range of 9% to 11% and up a similar level year-over-year.
Within Services we expect to make may further gains in the second half.
The Texas Medicaid contract loss temporarily flows sequential revenue growth improvement and results in an exit revenue growth rate for Services in the low single digits.
We feel good about delivering sequential margin improvement and exiting the year comfortably above 10%.
And as I mentioned earlier we expect full year Services margin to be at the lower end of our 9.4% to 9.8% range as a result of the non-cash charges that we took in the second quarter.
At consolidated level for the first quarter we expect revenue to decline about two point and adjusted earnings per share of $0.25 to $0.27 which includes approximately $0.02 of restructuring.
And for the full year we’re narrowing our adjusted EPS guidance range to $1.09.to $1.13.
And with that I’ll hand it back to you Ursula.
Thanks Kathy.
I want to get to your questions.
So I’ll summarize quickly.
Our second quarter shows progress growing revenue in our Services business operating profit in our technology business and reaping the benefits of our strong cash flow.
Our profits in Document Technology help offset the headwinds that we’re seeing in some of our Services businesses.
Our focus on implementing the Services strategy is showing positive results and we are seeing good progress internationally and in areas like document outsourcing and commercial healthcare.
Our strong cash flow allows us the flexibility to make strategic investments that will enhance opportunities in the future.
Our 2014 priorities and focus are consistent.
In Services improving growth through portfolio management and profitability by driving cost efficiencies through the business.
In Document Technology capitalizing on the most advantaged segments of the business to maintain our leadership positions in the industry while maintaining strong profitability.
And we’ll continue to generate healthy cash flow to deliver shareholder value.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn you over to Jim.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today are Bob Zapfel head of our services and Jeff Jacobson head of our Document Technology business.
Also let me point out that we had several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I ask participants to please limit follow-on and multipart questions so we can get to everyone today.
At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
(Operator Instruction) Our first question comes from the line Brian Essex from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
And thank you for taking my questions.
Maybe start off with a question for Bob so you had some nice sequential margin improvement ex the restructuring or ex charge-off it was 9.2% over 8.6% last quarter.
What kind of -- I guess the first part of the question is what kind of milestones do you need to hurdle for the remainder of the year exit the year at a 10% or better than 10% margin run rate? And then I have a follow-up? Brian thanks.
I would appreciate that we did make -- we did make progress.
I think we’ve got a good clear game plan relative to cost management.
We’ve moved to a capability centered organization which has allowed us to look at our businesses and where we have a chance to leverage some cost advantages or cost businesses.
So I wouldn’t view it necessarily as some key milestones and jump over it.
It’s really more executing our overall plan.
And I think we’ve got a very clear line of sight to the track that Kathy laid out that gets us to comfortably at 10% plus as we exit the year.
Okay.
And I understand when we had the call last quarter you had only been there for about 21 days.
Since then I imagine you have the opportunity to peek under the covers to a little bit greater extent.
If you look at the guidance prior quarter of exiting the year better than a 10% run rate have you been able to identify additional low-hanging fruit and is that going for -- I guess along the lines of cost improvements or operational improvements.
And would that potentially lead to upside to that number and then going into 2015 do we expect sequential improvement again through the year or there is certain factors that could lead to additional lumpiness in margin performance in 2015? Well we’ll be more in 2015 at the Investor Day session in November.
But again I would say our track through year end we’ve got a pretty clear line of -- I wouldn't call it low-hanging fruit.
But I would say that -- it never feels that way when you’re operating the business.
But I would say we’ve got a very very clear plan that is broadly owned by the team.
And some of this is that news that we’ve had that’s affected our margin.
So it won’t repeat.
So we get a little better lift in the second half versus the first half because of some of the challenges that we specifically called out.
But we’ve got a good solid operating plan to deliver those kind of margin as we exit the year.
And we certainly are looking -- we certainly are looking at next year as though now we want to fall back in the wrong direction.
But we’ll get more detail on the 2015 roadmap when we’re together for the investor session in November.
Brian if you think about -- this is Ursula all the business lines that Bob manages and he has been leading into in the last couple of months we manage all of them to try to show us margin expansion on a business-by-business basis.
And in the second quarter we saw that and we expect and literally the plan is to continue to drive those actions through the business so that we see the same kind of margin expansion in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter.
So just reiterating what you said there is no miracle here.
It is literally just operating the business on a line-by-line basis and getting better control over government help which I think we have the foundation for it today.
Thanks.
We can have the next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes from Barclays.
Hi.
I just want to kind of go on to the margin question a little more and ask about the two segments as we go throughout the year and maybe a little bit of a different way.
In services you mentioned renewals down quite a bit and the bookings look like they are below your expectations.
So I wanted to just -- I was under the impression renewals you probably have higher margin than new business.
And in light of that just how that plays out on the margin line with you guys getting above your -- above 10%.
And then on the technology side I just want to know you guys talked about margin coming down from 14.4 just how abruptly like does it stabilized in the 12-ish type range because the upside there was about $0.05 in the quarter on that technology margin that was quite staggering.
So I just want to see how much that comes back in and why.
So it's just a little more detail in both margins in the big segments? Sure.
So Ben I’ll start with just talking about overall kind of booking and how we see bookings impacting our margins.
If we look forward to the second half clearly we’re expecting bookings to improve in the second half fiscals because they’ve got bigger renewal opportunity as well as additional new bookings expected on top of that.
In terms of renewals versus new-- we wouldn’t expect to see a negative mix implication overall.
We always anticipate adding renewals we have price downs.
We’re anticipating that overall and so we don't see any negative mix.
And overall if you look at how the mix of the portfolio is changing.
Out ITO growth has slowed a little bit.
BPO growth is picking up.
That’s generally a positive for us on mix overall.
If I flip to the second part of your question which was really about technology margin if we look at what happened in this quarter I’d say three months ago we underestimated the level of pension improvement we were going to get.
We got a little bit more currency improvement and overall mix turned out to be more favorable and we had a little less pricing pressure than we would typically see.
If I go to talk about that in second half our expectations for our technology margins we’ll see a dip in the third quarter because we’ve got a lot of new product launches and so that’s mainly the impact there.
We don’t get quite as much pension benefit in the third quarter.
So pension benefits are a little bit lumpy for us because we have pension settlement cost.
But overall if you look at the second half and certainly the guidance we gave for the full year at least 100 basis points above the high end of our 9% to 11% range I feel really good about technology margins but I feel great about our ability to continue to well-manage this business to produce very strong profit and very strong cash flow.
Thanks Ben.
If we could move to the next question please? Certainly our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
Thank you very much.
Jeff I had a question for you.
Could you talk a bit about what you're seeing in the printing market? I mean you’ve got rollout of significantly more product in the second half of this year.
Do you expect market share gains? What markets are you sort of focused on and if you can give any color in terms of geography because it seems like Europe was pretty strong? And then I had a quick follow-up.
Thanks.
Sure.
Shannon.
So let me just say in terms of our activity our activity has been strong for the past year and we gained a share point in 2013.
And in Q1 and as Kathy said we knew we would have a tough Q2 compare due to ConnectKey our entry production color high launch.
However Kathy mentioned our product launch is coming in the second half which I think will really start seeing more of a benefit in Q4 and certainly into 2015 where we have about 20 new launches in the second half.
We’re benefiting entire company but I think it will especially benefit our developing markets our channels organization and certainly document outsourcing.
And I think it’s also important to mention that even in this quarter where we had a tough compare in our median high segments we had sequential growth in both color and mono and in entry we were essentially flat in color.
Let me take some of the geographies.
We’re seeing pretty stable business environment in the U.S.
very predictable for us.
We manage it well.
And so you were right -- Europe last quarter we saw improvement.
This quarter Europe is hanging in there for us and doing well.
Developing market continues to be a precious place for us.
My expectation is that U.S.
and Europe will continue to trend that they are on and unfortunately developing economies will continue to trend that they want to be.
It would be tough for us.
The product launch that Jeff talked about should help us giving them more optionality to sell and deal.
But it’s not clear that the environment they will actually pick it all up.
Okay.
Great and then just my follow-up question for Bob or Ursula I'm not sure which.
When you think about New York State in the contract that you've -- I know it's not finalized but it appears you're going to be awarded.
How do we think about that in light of some of the startup costs that we saw with California Medi-Cal? I mean is this something where you're going to be able to leverage some of your newer platforms so perhaps not as many startup costs or just how do we sort of think about that as we look through the year? Bob will take it.
Yeah Shannon I think the way to think about New York is obviously first we have to -- we have to move from award to contracts.
So we are excited for the opportunity to do that after the protest cycle and our view would be we’ve really learned a lot through the prior implementations.
We think that we will be able to execute New York well for the citizens in the state and for us.
It won’t be all of these new implementations start with not huge margins.
You make your money over time but that’s the way we built it into all of our guidance.
So that’s plan for us.
We understand we don’t expect to have big unrecovered costs but we do know that they don’t start at higher margin that that’s the business model designed.
It’s not unique to any individual state that services broadly and that’s part of what we’ve accounted for in our commitments as we go forward.
Thanks Jim.
If we could have the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva from Citigroup.
Thank you.
And congratulations to you and your team there at Xerox.
If we’re to look at several of the metrics such as signings and bookings and margins -- and I am looking more forward-looking.
Should we then expect them to no longer come up? Or given the timing of when the decisions were made from Texas Nevada California and New York that there might be some impact to those? And I think that maybe help us filter through the magnitude of what we should expect.
So on signing the loss of Texas is basically behind us.
It was reflected overall in our renewal rate.
What we’re expecting going forward as we talked about signings improvements in the second half and so New York isn’t included in our numbers today but we would expect to see that in the future.
We have another award that’s under protest for a tolling deal that we did in Florida again not included in our numbers part of the reason why we have a good amount optimism in the second half.
So overall we feel good about looking forward in signings improvements in the second half.
And our renewal rate without the Texas loss would be in the range that we wanted to be in the 85% to 90% range.
So the Texas loss is a singular event but our business flows are fairly consistent with all the quarters previously particular on renewals.
Okay.
And then as a quick follow-up when we think about there has been a lot of public information about the New York contract and the California contract.
When those are ramping are those fully considered in your margin profile outlook or are you building in a little additional stand-up costs? I at least want to make sure that we're just not then going to be seeing some additional pressure from those ramping.
Both of those are fully contemplated in the guidance.
Great.
That’s good to hear.
Thank you and congratulations again.
Thanks Jim.
If we could have the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Tong from Piper Jaffray.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I will just start out with Kathy.
Could you provide the impact or expected impact on the various government healthcare contracts you have rolling on and off over the next several quarters? Specifically what the timing is for when New York MMIS will come online and whether the expected impact for Texas MMIS will be a very consistent 150 basis points year-over-year? Then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
And so take New York first.
New York is a little bit hard to call perfectly right is we are going to a protest period and we then have to contract.
Our expectation would be that we start to see a little bit of New York coming on towards the tail end of this year but it has a more material impact in 2015.
And then with respect to Texas Texas is going to tail off pretty quickly.
And so we have a little bit of transition in Texas but we expect to see Texas tail off pretty fast.
Kathy if I could add so that 150 basis points on the top line we would be dealing with that if you will for roughly for a quarter.
So that is it will hit us to start.
As Kathy has mentioned as we kind of go through the third and fourth quarters.
And then on a quarter year-over-year basis we would be looking at that still in the first half of next year as well.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks.
And lastly Ursula and Bob could you share color on how the other parts of the services business is performing so commercial BPO commercial ITO and document outsourcing? I will start at the highest level.
Let’s say I am pleased with all of them and let me let Bob go into a little bit more color.
Yeah I would say we really had -- we’ve got the challenge obviously what we talked about in government healthcare but if you look at the rest of the portfolio our business in Europe was up double digits organically even more sizably with the benefit of an acquisition earlier in the year.
Our commercial healthcare business is growing at double-digit rates with very strong margins.
Our HR and learning business is performing very well for the most part the mix.
I mean not everybody is perfect but the mix across the rest of those businesses in aggregate we are very pleased with.
And one -- if I can add one point on ITO very specifically our revenue growth in ITO is half for the last few quarters last two quarters at least slowed to low-single digits and we spoke about this in last year’s Investor Conference and I am sure in some calls before about how we look at our ITO business.
It’s a good business for us.
It is a relatively small business for us and it operates at the lower end of our margin range.
And so we are focusing on margin expansion an improvement in ITO and not so much on revenue growth there.
We are putting most our bullets or guns in the -- bullets in the gun around BPO and document outsourcing from a revenue growth perspective and that will continue.
And that’s part of the portfolio mix strategy that the team covered last November at the Investor meeting.
So that’s part of our five-plank strategy is really around trying to grow more rapidly in our most 'advantage' businesses.
And Ursula’s comments are right to that point.
Thanks George.
If we could have our next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Thank you guys.
I have two questions as well.
The first is philosophical growth rate.
And what I mean by that is Bob I was hoping you could address BPO and ITO.
And the recent data points around BPO have been very mixed.
A lot of your competitors and even some of the leading consulting organizations have suggested that the BPO market has indeed slowed.
Now Xerox is in a slightly different segment or at least a slightly different segment than some of the leading organizations but I was hoping you could address on the market level if you are seeing a slowdown in BPO? Related to that is the ITO side.
Ursula just mentioned your strategy is different which I think is completely appropriate but can you grow the ITO side or does that become a negative growth rate as you look out? And then I have a follow-on question on margins please.
Yeah I would say on the BPO market we are in the middle of our strategy cycle.
We see that market obviously it’s a broad $200 billion plus market.
It breaks into horizontal multi-industry components and industry-specific components.
Overall we see it at mid-single-digits and there is a little bit different mix depending on what area but it’s a very attractive market from our standpoint.
And I would view it as a more favorable from a market dynamic standpoint more favorable than ITO which is -- it was earlier in the maturity cycle grew to be a very large market more rapidly.
So we still feel very good.
Obviously segment by segment we look at each of them but if you just macro to BPO broadly we see mid-single-digit growth through the strategic horizon in that business area.
Okay.
Well I will transition to my second question.
Although Bob I'd love you to come back on and say can ITO grow or does it go negative? But my second question is for you Ursula as well as for Bob.
You do seem to be doing well in the commercial side of your services business which the healthcare or government side more specifically the government side of healthcare continues to struggle why not deemphasize that business? Nobody makes any money who serves the healthcare industry in the government side it doesn't seem.
CSC has been pretty vocal that they did not follow up with a bid for the New York side because they didn't think they would make money in it.
So just philosophically why not focus more on the commercial side and deemphasize the government healthcare related activities and thereby improve your sustainable profit levels? I don’t think that we are not focused more or focused a lot on the commercial side we are but we also -- the government healthcare market is a very attractive market.
We went through one cycle when this market started many many years ago that shows that we could invest in a new platform stay in that platform up and have it last for many many years and continue to drive growth on topline and profitability on the bottomline.
That is -- that remains our expectation.
And if you look at some of the contracts that are more mature moving towards more maturity California for example we have been able to literally move that contract from investment phase to flat profitability now to looking for growing profitability in a very predictable kind of a standard way took a little bit longer but on a go forward basis California is going to be beautiful.
And we expect as we implement New York to be beautiful as well.
So we’re not deemphasizing commercial in favor of government not at all.
We’re focused on all of them at a demographic show that we should be focused on them as well.
If I could just add one point a color we’re above 10% operating margins and the majority of roughly 70% of our government healthcare business.
So our experience I can’t speak to the competitor but our experience is once you get this stabilized you can have a great value proposition for the client and good for the shareowners.
And one of client just yesterday came out and reference that we’ve been working through some issues but they expect the system to have a 20 year longevity.
So that’s the reason that we don’t view it as an area to exit or deemphasize.
Thanks Keith.
If we can move on to next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Great.
Thanks for sharing that commercial margin in the size.
I didn't realize how big it was.
Actually I just wanted to ask first about signings and the outlook for the second half.
Can you be more specific there? Can you get to a book-to-bill north of say 1 in the second half without New York? Yes.
So I’ll get a little more specific.
When we look at the second half we’re expecting improvements and we think roughly we should end the year flattish on a 12-month trailing basis.
So we clearly have expectations make up for some of the softness in the first half.
Understood.
And then just my follow-up the outlook on Document Technology margins same question there maybe you can be a little more specific.
It sounds like you could stay above your target range in the second half.
You called out the 2 points around pension and transaction effects but it feels like with some of the changes is it possible we can assume that your longer-term margin target 9% to 11% could be elevated given some of the -- given the run rate? So I’m going to put aside sort to 2015 and long term but if you just look at the second half we guided specifically to being at call it the high end of that 9% to 11% target range for the third quarter.
We typically are a fourth quarter stronger just from a seasonality perspective in the technology business.
And if you look at some of the kind of year-over-year things that are going on one of the things we had last year where these receivable sales or financing receivable sales.
And so year-over-year we have a little less headwind in the fourth quarter from that than we do in the third quarter.
So we would expect seasonally better performance in the fourth quarter there.
Yeah.
Now it seems like it’s in a good place that’s why I asked.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you Tien-tsin.
If we could have the next question please.
Certainly our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Two if I could.
The first is on services rev growth.
Bob can you just kind of walk through what -- given that there has been some choppiness this year in both revenue growth and in signing can you give us a sense of what the headwinds are going into 2015? And how we should think about those kind of layering in and falling off as we exit the year? Yeah.
I guess from a headwind standpoint we’re still have the student loan runoff that’s more of a factor in the second half of the year the next year.
Texas will be a headwind as we’ve talked about more in the first half of next year than as we exit the year.
We’ve got -- as we’ve referenced we’ve got some substantial contract award potential for us as we close out this year that will then lead to filling in some of those gaps.
And we view the market as I briefly said earlier at a mid-single-digit growth rate and we think that we can get roughly that range as part of our overall sales strategy.
So there are a few headwinds they are not unknown headwinds though.
And we’ve got a team that wants to be successful on the marketplace and that’s our focus.
If I can just put an umbrella on top of that so BPO Bob has talked about it I have mentioned it higher growth rates document outsourcing higher growth rate.
The part of the market that we are that we’ll continue to have a low growth rate for us is the ITO business that is not something that the market should panic on that is literally the strategy.
One actually focus on profitability there be very selective with our contract plans and we’re doing that.
Our renewals and our renewal rate continues to be strong.
Loss of 85% we continue to have that as an expectation.
Decisions are slow a little bit -- well they were little bit slower in the second quarter.
A lot of them have moved to the third quarter and fourth and we expect to sign the ones that coming up then.
We have a very good win rate on new business there the 10 or so that we were pursuing in the quarter.
We lost two and signed eight.
We expect to have that kind of a flow going forward.
So I think that the revenue portion of the picture there are puts and takes and there are of course some ups and down Texas down etcetera etcetera.
But I think on a macro basis it looks good.
Thanks Ananda.
If we could have the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Shope from Goldman Sachs.
Okay.
Thank you.
So my first question is on services.
So you have the Nevada issue out of the way which obviously gives you room for improvement into the back half.
But given some of the other contract challenges you've had and some of the unexpected challenges in recent months is there a risk that we could see further write-downs in the second half or do you feel like the model is pretty fully scrubbed at this point? And then my second question a broader question would be on your restructuring plans how is it going relative to your original targets? And as you refine the services strategy are you finding any new opportunities arising in the restructuring category? That’s it for me.
So overall on the first piece the impairment charges that we took in the quarter were associated with our state (indiscernible) platform right? And we basically completely cleansed our balance sheet with regard to that.
As you look then at our Medicaid platform I mean we’re winning new business in the marketplace.
So we don’t really see any issue there in terms of some future shoe to drop type of thing.
Overall I’d also mention in this quarter that we settled with another state in terms of just our execution plan associated with their implementation and more specifics around the design and functionality.
And so that’s another one that I’d say we really kind of tucked away in this quarter.
So we feel pretty good about our grip on what we need to do in order to continue to mature the implementations.
And I would say kind of kudos to the Government Health Solutions group in terms of pretty well predicting outside of the impairment charge.
What we’re going to see in this quarter which is why when I exclude the impairment charge we’ve really had the profitability in margin progression that we were expecting.
On the second question on restructuring we’ve been very consistent about restructuring.
I’d expect to continue to see about $0.02 a quarter at the very beginning of the year.
We said we expect that restructuring charges to be pretty similar year-over-year and I think we did about a $115 million in total in restructuring charges last year.
So maybe we would be a tad higher this year but we’re going to continue to be pretty consistent in our overall approach to restructuring.
And one of the things that we talked about in this infamous or famous five-plank strategy one of the major things we talked about was cost improvement in services.
So we have a lot of focus on restructuring in the technology business and have a good reason there.
And Bob is developing that same level of discipline and rhythm in the services business so I expect the restructuring to participate and drive margin expansion portion of the margin expansion that Bob is counting on and continue to be strong margin contributors in the technology business as well.
Thanks Bill.
And operator I think we have time for one last question.
Certainly our final question for today comes from the line of James Friedman from Susquehanna.
Hi.
Thanks for sneaking me in and I'll ask my two upfront.
First for Ursula second for Kathy.
Ursula when you look across the services portfolio which do you emphasize more is it revenue growth or margins? And then Kathy I'll just ask you upfront could you share some color on the margin characteristics of ISG and Smart Data? And are there other dispositions meaning asset sales that you have planned in the second half? Thank you.
By the way your first question is a good question and unfortunately it doesn’t have a singular answer.
It depends on the section of the business and markets that we’re speaking about.
I just talked about ITO for example.
And in ITO I emphasized margin expansion over revenue growth.
It doesn’t mean I want them to walk away from good business that we can get and we can stand up in a margin expanding way but I actually tell them more focus on margin than on revenue.
In government healthcare it’s both.
I want to make sure we do not lose any large contracts and in places like in MMIS where we have a platform go hard to what’s growing that business why would you expand margins.
So it’s a mix of discussions and it’s different across the word transportation revenue growth etcetera.
Our advantaged businesses revenue growth and our businesses that are not performing at the level that we want from a margin perspective its margin on focus so it’s a mix of things.
And the good news is that Bob can actually walk and chew gum at the same time.
So he can actually manage too many different signals that I gave him.
And then just on the second question generally as we’ve talked about one plank of our overall services strategy as it’s just portfolio management and we’re trying to improve the overall mix of our business right.
So as you look at the things that we’re acquiring they’re very strategically aligned with that strategy.
And I would say ISG and Smart Data absolutely fall into that category.
Smart Data gives us a little bit of added scale in the litigation space litigation services which is the great business for us it’s a high margin business.
And ISG got added into our insurance overall portfolio and so again looking to mix up and not looking to dilute margin.
Great.
Thank you.
That’s all the time we have for questions today.
We generally thank you for your interest.
Ursula anything more to wrap up.
Thanks Jim.
And I’m confident that we have the right strategy and the right team in place to deliver on that strategy.
We’re making progress and we have a lot of work to do to continue to create greater value for our employees our customers and our shareholders and we are up to the challenge.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any further questions please contact me or any members from our Investor Relations team.
Thank so much for joining us today.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Q3 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at <a href="http://www.xerox.com/investor" rel="nofollow"><u>www.xerox.com/investor</u></a>.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today’s conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the express permission of Xerox.
(Operator instructions.) During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
Today we are reporting Q3 2014 earnings and in addition to sharing our performance I’ll update you on progress that we’re making against our overall strategy and how we’re positioning ourselves for the future.
Overall our business model is healthy.
We have the benefit of a strong annuity business a diversified portfolio and healthy cash flow.
We delivered earnings at the high end of our range and grew margin on a total Xerox basis.
We’re making progress.
We are the leader in diversified business services and we are maintaining leadership in our document technology business and we’re investing in both businesses for the future.
So here are some specifics on the progress that we’re making.
We remain the leader in document technology and its strong profitability continues to help fuel our growth initiatives.
We announced 17 new products during Q3 meeting market demand for continued innovation in this category.
We continue to strengthen our position in services.
We’re implementing a new operating model and client coverage strategy to improve signings performance and productivity.
We continue to strengthen our leadership and apply talent to areas where we see the greatest market opportunity.
We’re bringing greater value to our services clients with the use of advanced analytics that deliver insights gleaned from our delivery model.
A good example is in Commercial Healthcare which was a standout again this quarter.
Here we recently launched Juvo an advanced analytics platform that allows hospitals to analyze every aspect of the clinical cycle of care.
Our Document Outsourcing business is getting external recognition as well.
Our three-tier managed print services strategy was called out by IDC for Innovative Leadership.
The Xerox Merge system which uses data analytics to optimize parking demand and meter pricing was the winner of the 2014 Promising Innovation in Transport Award.
So across both services and document technology we remain focused on our important stakeholders delivering value for our investors being the best partner to our clients and making Xerox a great place to work for our people.
Here’s a look at our results and my perspective: we’re reporting adjusted EPS of $0.27 which is at the high end of the range that we set.
Our Document Technology business came in above expectations while Services margin results were lower than planned.
On the revenue side Services grew modestly and Document Technology declined in line with our expectations.
Our operating margin is up year-over-year driven by strong margins in Document Technology.
Services margins was up sequentially but lower than we anticipated as a result of higher cost in government healthcare as well as ongoing strategic investments.
And we continue to use our strong cash flow almost $600 million in the quarter to deliver value to stakeholders through dividends and share repurchases.
We’re raising full-year guidance for share repurchases to approximately $1 billion and we are making disciplined acquisitions targeted at enhancing our Services capabilities.
Most recently we acquired Consilience Software Inc.
a case management and workflow automation software provider for government agencies.
We have a talented and dedicated team which we continue to strengthen.
Our goal remains to provide leading products and services for our clients and deliver the operational results expected of us.
With that I’ll turn it over to Kathy then I’ll wrap up and we’ll open the call to your questions.
Kathy? Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
There were a number of plusses and minuses in the quarter but overall we delivered roughly in-line revenue and EPS at the high end of our range with strong cash flow.
We took a bit of a different path to achieve that outcome with document technology profitability coming in stronger and offsetting lower services profitability.
I’ll cover both segment results as well as cash flow separately but first let’s walk through earnings.
Revenue in the quarter was down 2% at both actual and constant currency.
In total segment revenue trends were largely as expected with Services up modestly and Document Technology down mid-single digits.
Gross margin of 30.8% was down 70 basis points year-over-year driven by a decline in Services as well as the greater mix of services at a lower margin.
Our D&amp;E was lower year-over-year as increases in Services were more than offset by productivity-driven reductions in Document Technology.
SAG was lower in both segments as we benefited from productivity initiatives as well as lower pension expense.
These improvements more than offset the lower gross margin and resulted in operating margin expansion of 10 basis points year-over-year.
Operating profit in total was roughly flat as margin expansion basically offset the impact of the revenue decline.
Moving down the income statement adjusted other net was $29 million higher year-over-year.
Within that OID was $35 million higher reflecting a real estate gain in the prior year as well as higher litigation reserves this year.
Restructuring of $28 million was $7 million lower year-over-year and in line with our guidance.
Adjusted tax rate of 26.8% was one point lower year-over-year and at the high end of our guidance range of 25.0% to 27.0%.
Adjusted EPS of $0.27 was $0.01 higher year-over-year as growth in Document Technology’s operating profit roughly offset the decline in Services; and below the line higher OID expense was more than offset by lower share count.
I’ll now move to Services Segment’s slide to review our results in more detail.
Services revenue grew 1% and was flat in constant currency which was about a point lower sequentially reflecting the impact of the Texas Medicaid loss that we discussed last quarter.
Within Services BPO growth increased to 2% from 1% in Q2 with good growth in Commercial Healthcare Litigation Services and International.
ITO declined 3% due to the impact of lower prior ITO signings as we’ve become more selective in where we participate in that business with our main focus on improving our margins and profit there.
Document Outsourcing was flat year-over-year with continued strong growth in our SMB offerings offset by lower equipment sales in enterprise.
We expect Services top line growth to remain constrained in Q4 as several large new deals that have been awarded are taking longer to get to contract and some new businesses decisions that have been deferred are also delaying the ramp of new work.
This is negatively impacting signings as well which were down year-over-year.
We had previously anticipated better signings results throughout the second half but are now seeing the shift to Q4 and early 2015 reflecting the decision and contracting delays.
We have a strong pipeline up 7% year-over-year and are continuing to ramp up sales hiring and training.
Renewal rate in the quarter was 82% which was modestly below our target range of 85% to 90% driven by a lower ITO renewal rate.
The BPO renewal rate was above 90% in the quarter albeit with less renewal opportunity.
We have a large BPO contract renewal that’s been awarded and is in the process of being contracted so that should help our Q4 renewal rate and signings.
Shifting to profitability segment margin was 8.9% in Q3 which was up 30 basis points sequentially but fell short of our target to get something north of 9.2%.
We did see solid sequential margin expansion in BPO even with adjusting out the government healthcare Nevada-Hicks impairment charge from last quarter.
In Document Outsourcing our margins are quite good but are seasonally lower in Q3; and in ITO we took a temporary hit in margin as we proactively restructured a few contracts seeking to improve the mix and profitability of that business.
Within Government Healthcare we’re making good progress but expense levels are still high as we continue to invest to improve the performance of the first platform implementations of our new Medicaid platform.
These impacts were more constrained ni Q3 but are still a headwind year-over-year.
We’ve been realigning the Services organization to better leverage our scale gain efficiencies and improve customer value.
We’re aligning the organization to specific industries to improve our go to market approach and have consolidated management of operational capabilities to achieve scale benefits.
We believe this structure will also enable improved execution.
We continue to bring in additional new talent under Bob’s leadership and are focused on accelerating productivity gains and de-layering our old SBU management structure.
In Q4 we expect further sequential margin improvement; however we’re moderating our expectations in light of our Q3 results and investments required as we push forward with our Services strategy.
We expect margin to be between 9% and 10% for the quarter.
With that I’ll review Document Technology.
Revenue in Document Technology was down 6% in actual and constant currency and was in line with expectations.
Equipment revenue declines moderated versus Q2 and although annuity declines were a bit higher this was due entirely to the impact of finance receivables sales in the prior year which had a one point impact to revenue growth.
From a geographic perspective trends were generally consistent with last quarter with the US stable Europe improving and developing markets weak but with moderating declines.
Looking at the product groups we’re seeing very positive results in the high end with growth in both equipment and annuity revenue.
High-end annuity revenue grew the past two quarters which is encouraging as it reflects increases in [MIF] and pages in this important segment.
Mid-range was in line with overall Document Technology declines while Entry Performance was weaker.
Q3 was a very strong quarter for new products with 17 products launched and an additional three launched in October.
We extended our very successful ConnectKey platform into a number of entry multifunctional devices as well as into color and mono mid-range products.
By further extending the platform we provide even more options for our customers looking to leverage our strong mobile security and app development.
This should position us well in Q4 and as we enter 2015.
Document Technology margin in the quarter was 14% resulting in operating profit growth of 9% despite the revenue decline.
The strong margin performance reflects benefits from restructuring and cost initiatives as well as continued favorable mix positive transaction currency and lower pension expense.
Although mix may not be as favorable in Q4 we expect continued strong margin performance down sequentially but up year-over-year.
As we look to 2015 based on today’s rates we’d expect currency transaction benefits to continue.
However pension expense will be a significant headwind.
Pension settlement expense this year is expected to come in even lower than we previously anticipated declining about $100 million year-over-year.
The further decline relates to changes in the discount rate used to determine benefits with the rate recently published for 2015 coming in lower than 2014.
This naturally motivates individuals to wait to take their lump sum in 2015 when the benefit will be higher and will shift more cost for us into next year.
This is the opposite phenomenon from what we experienced from 2013 to 2014 where the discount rate increased and it adds noncash volatility to our earnings.
With the discount rate declining we expect about $105 million of additional noncash settlements expenses next year.
Our Technology segment margins have been running well above our long-term guidance of 9% to 11% and even with the pension headwind we expect we will be above the high end of the range again next year.
I’ll turn now to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations was $595 million in the quarter and $1.2 billion through September.
As expected cash flow in the quarter was lower than prior year due to the positive impact of $316 million last year from the finance receivables sales versus a net negative impact of $102 million this year due to the loss of collections from previous sales.
Underlying cash flow which excludes the impact from prior-year financed receivables sales was $697 million in Q3 and $1.5 billion through September.
With cash from operations we continue to see the benefit from working capital which included some timing benefits within accounts payable this quarter.
So overall it was another strong operating cash flow quarter.
Moving down the cash flow statement investing cash flows were a $128 million use in the quarter.
We spent $112 million on CAPEX and $25 million on acquisitions for the recently announced Consilience acquisition a provider of case management and workflow automation software that’ll strengthen Xerox’s suite of offerings to state governments.
Additionally in Q3 we exited the Xerox Audio/Visual Solutions business a small audio/visual business that was non-core and flowed into our other segment results.
Cash from financing was a use of $417 million and included $251 million in share repurchases and $83 million in preferred and common stock dividends.
So to wrap up cash flow with three quarters done we’re well positioned to deliver on our full-year cash flow guidance of $1.8 billion to $2.0 billion of operating cash flow which equates to $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion of free cash flow.
And as a reminder we have no financed receivables sales planned in Q4 as compared to proceeds of $247 million in Q4 2013.
Now I’ll quickly cover capital structure.
We ended the quarter with $7.7 billion in debt and in line with our original guidance we continue to expect to end the year with about $7.8 billion in total debt.
Applying 7:1 leverage on customer financing assets our allocated financing debt is $4.2 billion leaving core debt of $3.5 billion.
We manage our core debt to maintain a leverage ratio consistent with our investment-grade credit rating while financing debt has come down over the past few years driven by the financed receivables transactions as well as lower origination.
So we have a pretty stable capital structure and if we move to the next slide I’ll review where we’re at on share repurchases and dividends.
With our strong cash flow to date and taking advantage of our high beginning-of-year cash position we’ve steadily repurchased shares this year for a total of $730 million or 61 million shares through September.
We continue to view our shares as a good investment and we’re increasing our full-year share repurchases to approximately $1 billion.
Our full-year guidance for dividend payments remains about $300 million and reflects our current quarterly dividend of $0.0625 per share.
When combined with the share repurchases we now expect approximately $1.3 billion to be returned to shareholders this year.
Before I turn it back to Ursula I’d like to summarize our expectations for Q4 and the fully year.
We expect Document Technology to continue to deliver strong margin up year-over-year in Q4 but down sequentially driven by the new product launch timing and mix with full-year margin above 13%.
Revenue declines remain down mid-single digits in constant currency and down an additional two points in actual currency in Q4 given the recent strengthening of the dollar relative to the Euro.
As I detailed earlier we’re continuing our investments and improvement actions and services and expect our Q4 margins to expand sequentially to approximately 9% to 10% with revenue growth flat to up 1% with about a point of negative currency impact.
At the consolidated level for Q4 we expect revenue will decline about three points including one to two points of negative currency with adjusted earnings per share of $0.30 to $0.32 which includes about $0.02 of restructuring.
And for the full year we now expect adjusted earnings per share of $1.11 to $1.13.
As we look to 2015 our EPS expansion will be constrained due to the volatility of nonoperational pension settlement expenses that I discussed earlier.
With that I’ll hand it back to you Ursula.
Thanks Kathy.
I want to get to your questions so I will summarize quickly.
Our Q3 shows our strategy is on track but we still have areas for improvement.
We’re seeing the benefits of strong operating profit from Document Technology while we position our Services business for future growth.
Our annuity-based operating model diverse portfolio and strong cash flow combine for a healthy and resilient business model.
We’ll finish 2014 with a focus on three priorities: in Services improving growth and profit through portfolio management and improved productivity; in Document Technology capitalizing on the most advantaged segments of the business to maintain our leadership position in the industry while maintaining strong profitability.
And we’ll continue to generate healthy cash flow to deliver shareholder value.
Thank you and now over to you Jim.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today is Bob Zapfel head of our Services business.
Also let me point out that there’s several supplemental slides at the end of our deck that provide more financial detail to support today’s presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I ask participants to please limit follow-on and multipart questions so that we can get to everyone and at the end of our Q&amp;A session I’ll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions.) Our first question comes from the line of Tien-tsin Huang of JPMorgan.
Hi good morning thank you.
I just wanted to first ask about the signings and the visibility there.
What’s driving the push out on the project ramps in the signings? Is it a cyclical issue or maybe are client priorities changing? Any color there would be great.
Thanks Tien-tsin this is Bob.
I think you have to break it into big deals versus more traditional and I think on the big deals side of it we have seen an elongated process largely associated with really with competitors protesting and those cycles running longer.
So on the big deal components we’re very happy with our success rate; they are taking longer to get to closure.
On the more traditional kind of volume of pursuits our win rate remains very strong.
In Q3 of the top 20 deals we were pursuing we didn’t lose a single one but our in-quarter conversion rate was lower than typical – and I would say that’s a little bit of a function of there’s more that we need to do and that we’re investing in relative to our sales force and helping them get the larger deals or those top 20 deals over the goal line.
So hopefully that’s responsive to your question.
Sure.
As we think about Q4 and I guess for the full year is there a new view on your signings target for this year what needs to be achieved in order to see growth next year? And also just trying to understand a little bit more as a follow-on to ITO and within ITO it sounds like you did some contract restructurings.
Can you size that and is there more to do there? That’s all I had thank you.
So if you look overall at the trends as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we’ve basically seen a slippage of when we were expecting to see year-over-year improvements in signings.
And so as we look to Q4 we’d expect to see year-over-year improvement.
I mentioned that we had one large renewal that should occur in Q4 – that should help both our renewal rate as well as our overall signings.
With regard to ITO which I think was the second part of your question we’re really managing ITO as a niche business looking to really have deals where we’re partnering ITO with BPO and we’re getting an overall I’d say good margin performance from that support but not really chasing what I’d call bigger commoditized deals in ITO.
And as a consequence of that we certainly expect that we’re going to have a lower overall growth rate in ITO.
Now we are still winning new business in ITO.
We won a new contract this quarter in ITO so it’s a business that we absolutely are continuing to pursue but we’re being more selective in terms of what we’re pursuing.
Thanks Tien-tsin.
Can we have the next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
Thank you very much.
I had a question with regard to restructuring both on the Document Technology side as well as on services.
Just how are you thinking about restructuring as you go into 2015? What kind of opportunities do you think you’re seeing because it basically seems like you reinvested some of the upside this quarter on the Document Technology side into Services.
So how do we think that all flows through and we see the opportunities in 2015? And then I have a follow-up thanks.
Sure Shannon.
So if you look at restructuring the first thing I’d say is we don’t ex item restructuring right? A big part of the reason we don’t ex item restructuring is especially within our Technology business it is the regular course of our business.
I think we’re incredibly disciplined and very good about it.
So when you look at what we’ve done so far this year we’ve done about $0.02 every quarter; we just guided to doing another $0.02 in Q4.
And so I think you can continue to expect as you look forward that we’re going to have those kinds of restructuring charges regularly.
In terms of the mix of restructuring charges I’d actually expect that we’re going to see a little bit higher mix towards Services.
Clearly one of the things that we need to do is further ramp up productivity initiatives.
And so I would expect to see that mix change a little bit but I’ll just remind you that from an expense perspective we’re always going to be technology heavy because those tend to be our higher-cost workers.
And we’ll continue to do a lot of work there.
And maybe Bob can you talk about specific areas where you think you can improve within Services and again how we think… Like what have you seen over the last several months that you’ve been there and how are you sort of thinking about opportunities in ’15? Yes Shannon I think from an improvement standpoint at the macro level the two areas I would call out most visibly is we really do think that we can improve our sales conversion and we’re taking a number of actions there.
One is beefing up the sales team in terms of adding to the hiring; the second is a more aggressive sales training program that we’re leveraging.
So I would say one thing that I’ve kind of concluded after seven months is that there was more that we could do there.
Ursula says to me if you’re winning all the time you’re not covering enough because you should have a mix of wins and losses in the marketplace so we’re trying to broaden our coverage.
And then I think the second area that I would call out that we’ve been on but that we will be ramping up the pace is that we have moved to a global capability model around our delivery teams and kind of moving away from a 2500 strategic business unit structure to more managing delivery globally.
And we believe that we can leverage that to drive productivity increases.
That is part of what Kathy shared as we think about going forward.
So those would be the two main things.
Thanks Shannon.
If we could have the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays.
Hi good morning.
My question is around some of the things you said around 2015.
It seems like there’s a $0.06 hit year-over-year due to pension vis-à-vis the prior expectation and I was wondering if we could talk about at today’s rate what currency if there’s a bottom line hit to currency what that is heading into next year and the next quarter; and potentially if you have to have lower Services margins than expected what that hit would be.
Basically I know you guys want us to wait for November 11<sup>th</sup>.
What I’m getting at is the street’s at $1.20 for next year and if I pile these hits up then the EPS starts to look pretty flat unless the share count’s materially lower for 2015.
And I know you’re going to want to say that at the Analyst’s Day but I’m wondering what you’re trying to message with 2015 on this call given all those puts and takes I just articulated.
So if you can just explain that Kathy that would be great.
Thanks.
Sure.
Okay so I’m going to start by saying you’ve just articulated a whole lot of puts and takes and so I’ll try and cut a little bit to the bottom line.
And we’re still obviously ramping things up and are going to talk in a lot more detail as you mentioned at our November investor conference.
So first you’re right – with regard to pension settlement expense I think we’re trying to articulate a couple of things.
So we now have visibility to this right? We print a discount rate once a year in Q3.
We do our actuarial work and then we get visibility to pension expense.
Importantly this is a highly volatile thing our pension settlement expense.
It has to do with nuances of our pension plan the fact that we offer a lump sum and lots of people taker it etc.
but it’s a noncash item.
I think if you look overall at Xerox’s cash conversion rate net income to free cash flow we have a cash conversion rate above 100% and we have very very strong cash flow.
If I look to currency which is the other large item that you mentioned which we’re getting benefits from this year if I look at where rates are today with our currency transaction benefits really flowing from the Yen – if I look at where rates are at today our currency benefit should hold next year.
If anything I’d say maybe a little bit positive but certainly as I look at rates right now they should hold next year.
I talked about currency for Q4 from a translation perspective and so that’s putting some headwinds overall on top line.
Those headwinds don’t have a real material impact in terms of bottom line results for us.
So that gives you I think a little bit of a feel for some of the puts and takes and I’d come back and say importantly I think you continue to see our very strong cash flow results this year our reiteration of guidance on strong cash this year.
And as we look forward next year we expect to have continued very good conversion rate and cash flow.
Just did I miss it – did you reiterate the long-term Services ranges in terms of margins or are we going to address that at the Analyst’s Day in terms of where we’re going to be in the future on the long-term Services margins and your ability to be in that range? Yeah so we’ll address that at Investor Day but we haven’t changed the expectation long-term for our Services business.
Thanks Ben.
If we can have the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Good morning thanks for taking my questions.
On Services margins can you discuss what positive or negative surprises you saw in the quarter and what provides confidence Services margins can step up in Q4? Okay it’s Bob.
From a negative surprises standpoint obviously we came in a little bit short of where we had committed we’d come in.
And I would say from a negative surprise standpoint we did make choices to invest more in a couple of the MMIS contracts and as Kathy referenced we had a couple of IT outsourcing restructurings that we felt we could stay within the envelope of what the firm had committed in terms of overall earnings and position ourselves for better profit downstream in IT outsourcing.
On the positive side we are really having really strong success in our Commercial Healthcare business both in terms of revenue growth and margin.
And as Kathy mentioned I think in the prepared some of our other Europe in particular had strong revenue growth and margin improvement and our HR and Learning and Litigation business also performed exceptionally well.
So it was a mix of upsides and downsides.
If I can George one other thing that Bob has done is we have kind of loosened the reigns on his ability to hire at all levels of the company – kind of a little bit independent of matching cost decreases to the labor increases.
So he’s hiring at the high levels at the intermediate levels and as he said earlier at the sales.
We need to get the talent in across the board and we’re not being cheap on that or we’re not skimping on that.
That’s very helpful.
We’ve seen several quarters now of margin improvement in your commercial BPO business.
Can you go into a little bit more detail on what drove that improvement and what levers you have for further expansion? Well I think the main levers for future expansion are what we’re doing relative to these global capability organizations that we’ve formed to really drive best practices sharing across our delivery model.
So that’s been a multi-quarter initiative on our part.
We are largely complete and we see that as a way to capitalize on productivity initiatives right at the delivery model which is the vast majority of our resources.
I mean sales is a relatively small portion of our headcount and a vast majority of our team is in delivery so I would say going forward that’s where we would get the yield.
The previous improvement really related more to the labor initiatives around Optimus that you had visibility to from our investor meeting and previous calls.
Thanks George.
If we could have the next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from Bank of Montreal.
Hi good morning team.
Bob two for you if I could: the first one is can you win in BPO with subscale ITO? A lot of the vendors Accenture and Genpact and others are starting to talk about bundling their IT capabilities with BPO to lead for successful engagements and market share wins.
Xerox has a bit of a different strategy where your ITO is candidly subscale.
If more of the business does get aggregated does Xerox have the platform to be successful? And I understand your BPO’s a little bit different than some of the vendors but I just wanted to hear your thoughts on strategy as you look at the parts that Xerox brings to the table relative to the competition.
I have a follow-up thank you.
Yes I do believe we can win because in our BPO business when ITO is a component of it the competitors that we face are not generally stronger in that ITO element.
And I would say Keith that the decision is made on the platform and the strength of the BPO offering.
So ITO in an integrated BPO play is really not the determinative or decisional characteristic and again when we’re competing in our BPO business our win rate is very very strong.
And ITO is an underlying element of that and as either Ursula or Kathy mentioned previously we had a nice new logo ITO win in the quarter as well that was not directly tied to a BPO value prop but was a pure IT outsourcing play in the marketplace.
Okay and thanks for that answer.
My follow-up is your trailing twelve-month signings are down about 17%.
Can you grow Services next year? Yes but we’re concerned about trailing twelve-month signings being down at that level as well.
So part of what’s happened though is that when you are not signing the really big deals your term on signings shortens because it’s these half a billion dollar deals that tend to have a long term; and we have been winning much more with the shorter-term deals.
So the correlation of revenue and signings is not quite the way that maybe we would have seen or modeled in the past.
We are focused on driving signings improvement but even with the trailing twelve-month dynamics that you reference we believe we can grow revenue and improve our revenue performance.
And as we’ve said BPO we’re now on our third consecutive quarter of improvement in our revenue dynamics even with the signings results that you referenced.
Yeah and the only other thing I’d mention is that on new business our trailing twelve-month is down about 6%.
Thanks Keith.
If we could have the next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
Hi thanks for taking the question and congrats guys on a pretty solid quarter.
Two if I could – I guess the first is a follow-up on Services for Bob and for Ursula.
I guess in the context of how you expected the environment to feel I guess specifically BPO as we entered the year does the environment still feel the same? And there was a comment earlier that you’re not changing your long-term view of your Services business model but has there been anything that’s shifted in the context in the environment of I guess your mid-single digit your 5% to 7% long-term single-digit revenue growth model is predicated upon? I’d love to get your thoughts there and then I have a follow-up.
I’ll just start with the environment question.
I think that overall at the high level we are not seeing major shifts in the business environment from a Services perspective.
I mean clearly at the big deal I think that Bob talked about some of the dynamics that you have with some of the very large deals where there is more of a propensity at least we’ve seen it for people who move to actually protest and to actually hang in there a little bit longer.
That’s not what we have seen in the past but I think that’s maybe what we’ll be living with in the future.
We’re still confident in our ability to pull those deals out we’ve been awarded them but that’s one thing.
But the rest of the business I think is operating pretty much like we would have expected it to.
We are refining our approach particularly in ITO.
We’ve spent a couple of questions on this already.
ITO can grow but the margin contribution of ITO is something that is lower than the range that we actually want to play in and we are actually smaller there so we’re being very selective about how we approach ITO.
And our change in that market space will actually change some of the revenue dynamics and for the positive we think some of the margin dynamics on a go-forward basis.
And then I’ll have Bob take a crack at it.
Yeah the only thing I would add is I think when I’m out in the marketplace with the teams and with the clients there is still a very good in my view high level of interest in leveraging partners in what I would call shared services.
So ITO I think the dynamics are a little bit different in terms of kind of trailing growth rates based on market dynamics.
BPO when you look at the areas that we have leadership positions in I would view that as still… I’m pleased but I wouldn’t have a view that the overall client interest is less than I expected when I joined the firm.
Got it thanks for that.
And then just quickly for Kathy the raise on the buyback – you’ve had capacity over the last couple of years to do something in the neighborhood of $1 billion and you sort of entered the year with a similar guidance of about $700 million.
What is it about sort of raising the guidance to $1 billion right now in this quarter that gives you… You have the cash flow to do it so I know that gives you confidence but I guess I’m asking has there been a philosophical shift within your approach to capital allocation that could continue forward as we move along here? Thanks.
Yeah so no overall philosophy change whatsoever.
If you look at where we’re at in terms of acquisitions we’ve done a little over $300 million for the year.
I expect that we’ll get at least one or two things over the finish line before the end of the year but they’re small and so right now I think we will end up under-spending against our up to $500 million.
We’re not going to end up spending $500 million as I look out now and clearly we have a very good history on to the extent we under-spend we shift that under-spending towards share repurchases.
And that’s clearly part of what we’ve done.
As I mentioned we entered the year with a quite strong cash balance that put us in a nice position to have a much more I’d say consistent approach to share repurchases this year relative to last year.
You’ll recall we were very backend loaded but overall I think our philosophy is very consistent and we will continue to have a very balanced approach with regard to capital allocation.
Thanks Ananda.
If we can have the next question please? Hi good morning and thank you for taking the question.
I was wondering if I could point a little more towards the printing side of the business and it looks like we’ve had a few quarters of accelerated decline in that business.
And I’m just kind of taking a look at how it’s lumpy from quarter to quarter.
And given the new product releases and how you’re positioning and restructuring in that business do you think you could hit an environment where you have low-single digit declines as opposed to mid-single digit declines and if so what would it take for that to happen? So right now we’re consistently saying we expect mid-single digits.
If you look at what’s going on year-over-year specifically Q3 and Q4 we have a little bit of headwind because last year we did these financed receivables sales and that generated a $20 million gain in each of Q3 and Q4 last year.
So that was worth about a point of revenue growth or kind of headwind on growth this year.
We do have I’d say quarter-to-quarter timing differences largely associated with things like product launches with people kind of waiting for a new product launch and so we certainly get quarter-to-quarter differences.
But at this point we see pretty stable declines in the mid-single digit range on an actual currency basis.
I mentioned that’ll be a little bit higher in Q4 as a result of the dollar strengthening against the Euro.
But we’re seeing pretty consistent trends in the business.
And I think if you look at it from a share perspective you’ll see us marching along pretty consistently from a share perspective as well.
So I don’t think that there’s anything that you can read into or that we read into market dynamic changes and our positioning in the market.
We’re a strong leader and I don’t think that we are losing any position in the marketplace.
Okay and maybe one for Bob: it sounded like you had a pretty strong pipeline growth and I know the commentary was around there was some large deal elongation of signing cycles.
Is that pretty much a concentrated whether it’s in terms of the government healthcare business or it’s a larger secular trend? Or is there a situation where you get past a glut of some of these large deals and then maybe those signings accelerate and lead to better bookings through the end of the year? Maybe if you can provide a little more of the context of the mix of what’s occurring in those signings.
Yes I would say on the larger deals it’s not concentrated in government healthcare but it is public sector.
So it’s both our government healthcare business and our broader public sector business where we’ve had relatively large opportunities that again we’re pleased with being selected but getting to contract is taking longer.
Thank you.
If we can have the next question please? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Friedman from Susquehanna.
Thanks Jim.
I wanted to ask first Bob there’s a distinction between push-outs and protests and protests seem to be the way of the world these days.
So my question is if you were to add back the two large protests plus the renewal can you give us an estimate of where signings would have been in the quarter? Well each of the three large opportunities that we’re referencing is over $500 million in total contract value and they would aggregate to close to $2 billion.
But I would be careful to not now kind of add that to Q3.
We were not expecting all of that yield in-quarter but that’s the size of the three large transactions that we’ve been talking about.
Okay thank you.
And then Kathy with regard to the discount rate for people with a longer-term investment horizon rates move around each year – I realize that they’re down in the discount rate that you’re calculating for Q3.
Could you share with us some sensitivity analysis say that we’re up 100 basis points next year – where would that leave the pension obligation? Thank you.
Sure.
So where we see the most volatility in our pension expense is in the pension settlement expense line item and that’s where people can really change their behavior – either delay or accelerate the timing of taking their lump sum.
If discount rates were more stable I’d expect to see something closer to about $100 million of pension settlement expense annually.
Got it thank you.
Thanks very much.
If we could have the next question please Operator? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva with Citi.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Essex with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks very much and I have one question and I guess it’s hard for me to direct if it should go to Ursula Kathy or Bob but feel free all of you to chime in.
On one hand I’m very pleased to hear that Bob has the ability to hire more talent and invest in Services because I think that’s what’s really needed.
But then on the other hand when I see the trailing twelve-month signings down thinking about the ramping of the New York Medical contract – and I’m sure you don’t want to have issues when that ramps or stands up – it makes me start to think that does this mean that Service margins should they continue to be under pressure? Or is it more and I’d kind of like Bob’s view on this – is it more an issue that Xerox has like misaligned costs or too many low-end contracts or contracts that are non-accretive with variables to protect Xerox’s profits and therefore you have some changes and Xerox has to eat the costs because they weren’t appropriately contracted out with more details? If you can kind of help us around this big strategy question around strategy for Xerox and Bob you’re new and Ursula and Kathy have been striving to get Xerox Services up.
Just kind of this whole big topic of strategy and what’s going on what’s going forward with Services.
Yeah Jim this is Bob.
Let me go first and then obviously Ursula or Kathy can add color as well.
I would not say that we have severe contract misaligned costs challenges.
Any services business is going to have a little bit of a bell curve of higher-margin deals that are further in the maturity cycle and entry deals that take a little bit of time to ramp up.
We had a handful of situations in IT outsourcing that we tried to address in Q3 but I wouldn’t have a point of view that we’re out of balance on that score.
And if I go back to just your initial observations about adding talent I would add one piece of color which is we’re really pleased – I mean this really pleased that while we have a very strong team in place today broadly as we’re trying to grow we are trying to add some incremental leadership to the firm.
And the interest level and accept rate when we have been out trying to add a person to help us in this new area or that new area has been phenomenal.
So I feel good about both the existing talent that I had the pleasure of joining and in the selective places where we’re looking to add to our leadership a very very strong interest level and accept level of the people that we’ve offered roles to.
My only add is the revenue engine is going; the cost base perfected by our move to this global capability.
There’s no other magic here; there’s no structural contract issues or anything like that.
It is a fairly normal business.
It’s hard to kind of get it totally contained.
We’re focused on the mouth – how much can we bring through these capacities these capabilities that we have and making sure that we sign more business.
And that’s where Bob’s energy and efforts are focused.
Great thanks so much for the clarity.
Thanks Jim.
If we could have time for one last question please? Thank you.
Our final question for today comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse.
Thanks most of my questions have been answered.
It was just on Services margins – this year what are approximately the Medicaid kind of costs that are being assumed or that you’re facing? And how long do those kind of last? Is that a headwind into next year as well? Thanks.
The Medicaid costs let me have Kathy get a little bit more specific but they have been a big headwind for us.
A major portion of the shortage we see in margins is driven by Medicaid investments.
But we are seeing sequential improvement in those investments even though they are high.
Yeah the investments have been incredibly large.
I’ll just point to the impairment that we took last quarter which was $20 million.
I mean if we look at this year-over-year it has been a big headwind for us every single quarter.
In total we’re probably approaching a $100 million number year-over-year.
It’s been a huge investment for us and it’s been a big expense year-over-year.
Now as we look forward to 2015 the fact that we’ve invested so much in 2014 should help us in 2015 which doesn’t at all suggest that we’re not going to need to continue some level of higher investment as we have a few more implementations that are still underway.
But from a year-over-year basis this should start to become a tailwind for us.
And I would just add so we are driving for significant year-over-year improvement in that component of our portfolio but it will not be at our target long-term margins next year.
So we will be coming off of an unfortunately poor compare that we are delivering this year.
We expect to drive visible improvement in 2015 but not already be to our long-term kind of target margins against that portfolio of our business.
Thank you.
Thanks Kulbinder.
Okay that’s all the time we have for questions today.
We thank you for your interest and Ursula anything more to wrap up? Our goal is to have the solid foundation in place so that we can support our changing business and the changing needs of our clients while still delivering value for our shareholders.
I believe that we’re on track to do just that.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any further questions please contact me or any member of our Investor Relations team.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Welcome to the Xerox Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the express permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions].
During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
Before turning the meeting over to Ms.
Burns Jim Lesko Vice President of Investor Relations has a few words.
Before Ursula begins I would like to remind everyone that as a result of the pending sale announced on December 18 of our ITO business to Atos and having met applicable accounting requirements Xerox is now reporting the ITO business as a discontinued operation.
We will be reporting today our Q4 and full year 2014 results on a continuing operations basis.
Prior period results have been revised to reflect this change details of which can be found on our Investor Relations website at www.xerox.com/investor.
Ursula? Thanks Jim.
Good morning thanks for joining our call.
Today we're reporting fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings.
A lot has happened in the last 90 days and overall we're pleased with where we ended the year.
We're reporting solid results that in some places exceeded expectations.
I'll give a quick overview of our financials provide some perspective on the year and share updates on key initiatives contributing to our results before turning it over to Kathy to go into more detail on the financials.
We delivered strong profit and cash for the year and we closed strong in services revenue and margin.
Services revenue growth improved through the year and we saw improved margin performance.
Services signings increased as well driven by renewals in BPO and we ended the year with strong Document Outsourcing signings of over a $1 billion.
In fact our Canadian operation closed its largest ever multimillion-dollar MPS deal with the Government of Canada in November.
In Document Technology we delivered strong margin throughout the year reflecting both our continued focus on profitability as well as a favorable environment and for the fifth consecutive year we're the leader in equipment sale revenue.
Demand has been strong for our iGen and the new Versant products in the U.S.
and Europe.
These products provide our graphic communications customers with the ability to produce digital color prints at scale with a high level of personalization quality and reliability.
As you know Xerox has been focusing on the segments where we have the most competitive advantage and we have been steadily shifting our portfolio mix.
As an example we announced the pending divestiture of our ITO business through a sale to Atos.
This will allow us to focus squarely on Business Process Services and Document Outsourcing and provide additional capacity to invest further in these businesses.
We've aligned our Services go-to-market model into a set of industry teams and our delivery model along functional capabilities such as customer care human resources consulting and analytics and transaction processing.
We've made progress improving our government healthcare business and in 2014 we committed resources to maturing our MMIS enterprise platform.
While we still have work to do the hard work of the team is paying off.
We remain bullish about this market and its opportunities for us.
Innovation is a differentiator for us now and will continue to be in the future.
Within customer care we introduced an intelligent virtual customer care agent that can diagnose and resolve customer inquiries in the same way if not better than a human agent would.
Xerox invested in HealthSpot a pioneer in patient and provider-driven healthcare technology.
As their exclusive BPO partner we will support HealthSpot as they provide groundbreaking telehealth patients at convenient neighborhood locations.
It's an important step in the transformation of healthcare and an exciting place for Xerox to be.
In the second half the Document Technology team launched 20 new products that were well received and are a reminder to the market of our innovation power.
We continue to receive recognition from the industry for business and technology leadership.
Gartner Quocirca and others recognized us for our managed print and content services finance and accounting and BPO.
Everest Group named Xerox a leader in its service provider landscape ranking for the contact center outsourcing market for the healthcare industry.
We're feeling good about our progress.
We remain focused on being the best partner to our clients and making Xerox a great place to work for our people and delivering value to our investors.
Now let's take a look at the results in more detail.
We delivered earnings just above our range and grew margin in both our segments and on a total Xerox basis.
We're reporting adjusted EPS of $0.31 and GAAP EPS of $0.26.
Profit improved this quarter as we made progress in Services.
Services margin improved in the fourth quarter to 9.8% and we continued to benefit from a favorable environment and strong operational management in Document Technology.
On the revenue side the improved growth in Services to 3% in the quarter is notable especially considering the impact from the loss of the Texas Medicaid contract.
Document Technology revenue declined in-line with recent trends.
Acquisitions remain a key aspect of our portfolio management strategy.
For the full year 2014 we invested almost $350 million in acquisitions.
We're focused on enhancing our Services offerings and expanding our global reach.
We have a goal in 2015 to get more done on this front up to $900 million in acquisitions with part of those funds coming from the sale of our ITO business.
With that objective in mind we closed on one modestly sized acquisition since the beginning of the year Intrepid Learning Systems which includes a service to ensure companies' employees are equipped with the latest skills and knowledge to improve their business performance.
And underpinning our results in business model is strong cash generation.
We closed the quarter with $850 million in cash from operations and over $2 billion for the year.
This supported our acquisitions activity growing dividends and share repurchases.
In fact we announced today a 12% increase in our annual dividend rate to $0.28 per share.
Shifting ahead to 2015 our results will be impacted by the recent volatility in foreign currencies.
As a result we have adjusted 2015 guidance to reflect these headwinds.
Kathy will go into greater detail on currency in just a moment.
With that I will turn it over to Kathy then I'll wrap up and we'll open the call for your questions.
Kathy? Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
We were pleased with the progress we made this quarter.
Both Services revenue growth and margin improved and with the announcement of the planned sale of our ITO business to Atos we took a key step in our portfolio management strategy.
In addition our Document Technology business continued to deliver strong profitability.
The positive results in Services and Document Technology yielded earnings higher than our expectations and strong cash flow.
I'll cover the segments and cash flow in a moment but first let me walk through our fourth quarter earnings.
As noted earlier with the pending sale of our ITO business my commentary will be on a continuing operations basis excluding ITO.
Total revenue in the quarter was down 3% at actual currency and 1% at constant currency.
This compares to down 2% at both actual and constant currency in the third quarter.
Underlying constant currency growth improved from the third quarter driven by better Services performance.
And as expected we saw the impact of actual currency rates turn negative in the quarter.
Gross margin of 32.1% was up 10 basis points year-over-year as the positive benefit in Document Technology from productivity initiatives currency and pension expense more than offset the greater mix of services at a lower margin.
RD&amp;E was modestly lower year-over-year as increased investments in Services were more than offset by reductions in Document Technology.
SAG was lower in both segments as we benefited from productivity initiatives as well as lower bad debt and pension expenses.
These improvements resulted in our fourth quarter operating margin increasing a 100 basis points year-over-year and operating profit growth of almost 7%.
And for the full year operating profit improved $72 million and operating margin was up 60 basis points.
Moving down the income statement adjusted other net was a $6 million higher expense year-over-year.
Lower gains on sale of assets of $20 million and ruble-related currency losses of $5 million were only partially offset by $19 million in lower restructuring costs.
For the full year a tough compare resulted in adjusted other net expense coming in $102 million higher.
In 2013 we realized greater benefits from transaction gains and other non-operational below-the-line credits.
In addition restructuring charges were $13 million higher this year.
Our equity income was $41 million in the fourth quarter down $2 million dollars year-over-year driven by the impact of negative translation currency.
Our fourth quarter adjusted tax rate of 25.3% was up about 1 percentage point year-over-year and within our guidance of 23% to 27%.
Adjusted EPS of $0.31 was $0.04 higher year-over-year driven by operating profit growth and lower share count.
For the full year adjusted EPS of $1.07 was $0.03 higher as operating profit growth and lower share count were partially offset by higher adjusted other net expense.
I'll now move to the Services segment slide to review those results in a little bit more detail.
Services revenue grew 1% and was up 3% in constant currency which was two points better sequentially.
Within Services at constant currency BPO growth increased to 4% from 2% in the third quarter with good growth in commercial healthcare payer electronic tolling litigation services and international.
Document Outsourcing was up 1% year-over-year at constant currency a modest improvement from the third quarter but under our segment growth objective.
We're beginning to see good traction from our next-generation MPS offerings and we're encouraged by the good signings in the quarter.
Overall in Services we're making progress improving growth and we continue to expect 2% to 4% constant currency Services growth this year.
Our growth rate will be lower in the first half reflecting the impact from the Texas Medicaid contract loss last year slower first half Document Outsourcing growth and expected ramp timing for a couple of large new business contract awards.
The Texas loss creates a headwind of about 150 basis points until we lap it in August.
Total signings in the quarter were up 20% driven by strong growth in renewals including the large BPO contract renewal that I referenced last quarter which helped to drive a strong BPO renewal rate of 93%.
BPO new business was light as we're still working towards signed and approved contracts for the New York Medicaid and Florida tolling new business awards.
We're getting closer on both and continue to expect them to sign in the first half.
Our sales force is now aligned to specific industry verticals and we're investing in increased sales coverage and training.
These actions will positively impact new business signing as we move through 2015.
Document Outsourcing signings of $1 billion were the highest in recent history with good growth on both the renewal and new business side.
So a good signings quarter for Document Outsourcing which should enable growth to pick up by the middle of the year.
Shifting to profitability segment margin was 9.8% in the fourth quarter which was up 70 basis points sequentially up 10 basis points year-over-year and toward the higher end of our targeted 9% to 10% range.
We're making progress on our Services initiative and improving execution.
In BPO we saw multiple lines of business contribute to the year-over-year profit improvement and Document Outsourcing margins remained strong.
Our results in government healthcare were in-line with our expectations and we're seeing positive results from our investments to mature the platform and improve our operational performance.
We're confident we’re on the right track and we started some work ahead of finalizing the New York Medicaid contract to ensure we get off to the right start there.
In 2015 our focus will be on accelerating growth and driving a solid 50 basis points of margin improvement year-over-year.
In summary the fourth quarter was the strongest quarter of the year for Services both in terms of growth and margins and we're taking the actions required to hit our targeted 2015 core operating results.
With that I will now turn to Document Technology.
Fourth quarter total revenue in Document Technology was in-line with our expectations with constant currency results down 6% which was consistent with the full year rate of decline.
As expected the impact of actual currency rates turned on us this quarter with a negative two point impact.
Equipment revenue declines were higher driven by weakness in Eurasia reflecting the volatility in Russia's economy as well as the timing of large account sales.
The decline in annuity revenue moderated a bit sequentially driven by modestly higher supplies demand and a more favorable compare given the prior-year channel inventory reduction.
Similar to last quarter the finance receivable sales in the prior year was almost a one point negative impact to revenue growth.
From a geographic perspective the U.S.
and Europe were relatively stable while developing markets outside of Russia was a positive contributor to results.
Looking at our product groups High-End remains the best performing sub-segment reporting annuity growth at constant currency for the third quarter in a row.
We saw good traction from the recent launch of our new Versant Entry production color product as well as good growth in our iGen product family.
Mid-Range color activity was relatively flat and consistent with the third quarter as we continue to lap our ConnectKey launch from last year.
Mono declined in-line with industry trends.
Entry A4 activity was lower year-over-year given weakness in Eurasia as well as the timing of our Entry product refresh.
We launched 11 new products late in the third quarter and early in the fourth.
Market reception has been positive but the timing caused us to only catch a partial benefit in the quarter.
Profitability was quite strong.
Our Q4 margins came in above our expectations at 14.4% resulting in segment profit growth of 14%.
This strong performance reflects benefits from restructuring and productivity initiatives positive transaction currencies that more than offset negative translation impact and lower bad debt expense as well as lower pension expense.
So another solid quarter for Document Technology.
Now I'm going to turn to cash flow.
Before I go through the cash flow I would like to make one comment related to the announced ITO sale.
Our GAAP net income includes a non-cash loss triggered by the pending sale of the ITO business of approximately $180 million driven mainly by goodwill allocated to that business.
You can see the loss is added back further down in the cash flow statement; so net-net there's no cash flow impact.
Moving on our cash flow from operations was $857 million in the quarter and a little over $2 billion for the year which was just above our range.
As expected cash flow in the quarter and full year were lower solely due to the impact from finance receivable sales in prior years versus no sales in 2014.
Looking at the full year underlying cash flow which excludes the impact from prior finance receivable sales was $2.5 billion and compares to $2.1 billion in 2013.
The largest driver of the year-over-year improvement in underlying cash flow was a reduction in net working capital resulting from both performance and timing factors including lower DSO and improved year-end collections especially in Services improved terms with a few key vendors as well as seasonal smoothing of working capital.
Additionally we have higher runoff from our underlying finance receivables associated with lower originations as well as lower equipment revenue.
These year-over-year benefits were partially offset by higher pension funding.
Moving down the cash flow statement investing cash flows were a $129 million use in the quarter and a $703 million use for the full year.
For the full year we spent $452 million on CapEx and $340 million on acquisitions.
Cash from financing was a use of $297 million in the fourth quarter and $1.6 billion for the year included in that full year amount is $1.07 billion spent on share repurchases and $313 million used for preferred and common stock dividends.
Now I'll quickly cover our capital structure.
We ended the year with $7.7 billion in debt which excludes approximately $75 million in capital lease obligations related to our ITO business which were reclassified to a discontinued operations liability account.
Applying 7-to-1 leverage on customer financing assets our allocated financing debt at year-end was $4.2 billion leaving core debt of $3.5 billion.
We manage our core debt to maintain a leverage ratio consistent with our investment-grade ratings.
Our financing debt has come down over the past few years driven by finance receivable transactions as well as lower originations.
During 2015 we have two tranches of debt coming due about $1 billion in February and $250 million in June.
We continue to be comfortable with our leverage position and we plan to refinance these notes during 2015 which will result in our year-end debt being roughly flat at about $7.7 billion.
So our capital structure remains stable; and if we move to the next slide I'll review where we're at in terms of capital allocation.
During 2014 we returned close to $1.4 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends.
This equates to approximately 85% of our free cash flow for the year.
Those numbers include $1.07 billion of share repurchases and approximately $300 million of dividends.
We also spent a total of $340 million on acquisitions that's $185 million higher year-over-year but shy of our target of up to $500 million.
We obviously have more work to do here and we're focused on concentrating on a bit larger deals as well as adding more resources into this area.
For 2015 our capital allocation plan is unchanged and it reflects the redeployment of the expected net proceeds of roughly $850 million from the ITO sale.
On share repurchase we plan to spend about $1 billion repurchasing stock in 2015.
We continue to view our shares as an attractive price and it's a good investment.
On acquisitions we expect to spend up to $900 million.
In keeping with our portfolio management strategy we're looking to acquire companies that will expand our capabilities in attractive service areas as well as extend our global reach in Services.
As I mentioned on debt we're comfortable with our leverage position and expect to end the year roughly flat at $7.7 billion.
Finally on dividends we're announcing today a 12% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.07 per share.
This will result in spend of just over $300 million with share repurchases effectively self-funding most of the increase.
Before I turn it back to Ursula I would like to summarize our expectation for the full year as well as the first quarter.
As Ursula mentioned we've seen a sharp movement in currencies around the world in the last 45 days.
Where we would normally offset modest currency impacts the dramatic nature of this move creates almost $100 million of profit exposure year-over-year.
Most significant to us in this short time the euro has weakened by about 10% versus the dollar and 9% versus the ¥ and the Canadian dollar has weakened 7% against the dollar.
These currency moves cause both negative translation and transaction impacts.
While we continue to look for ways to offset more of this negative impact we believe it's prudent to capture the current exposure by revising our guidance.
Let me walk you through the details on where we're at on full year guidance and then I'll cover the first quarter.
On revenue our constant currency expectations are unchanged versus what we communicated at our November Investor Conference Total company roughly flat at constant currency Services up 2% to 4% with growth improving as we move through the year Document Technology down 4% to 5% which reflects some improvement as the negative impact of the prior finance receivable sales moderate and we realize more benefit from our product launches late in the second half of last year.
However we now expect currency will have a negative 3 to 4 point impact to revenue for the full year versus flat to about 1 point previously communicated with Document Technology having a little higher impact and Services a little lower given the geographic mix of the revenues.
On margins we continue to target a 50 basis point improvement year-over-year in Services which would put us at the middle of our 9% to 10% range.
For Document Technology we continue to expect to be within our 11% to 13% range but likely more towards the middle of the range driven by year-over-year increased pension costs that we've talked about previously as well as the negative net currency impact.
As a result of the lower expected revenue and actual currency as well as related pressure on Document Technology margins we expect the flow-through to impact earnings roughly by $0.06 and as a result we're lowering our full year adjusted EPS guidance by $0.05 to $1.00 to $1.06.
Turning to cash flow the timing of the ITO sale negatively impacts free cash flow as we expect to sell the business in the first half and it produces most of its free cash flow in the second.
Additionally currency impacts our cash presenting another headwind.
We expect to offset some of this impact in 2015 and incremental M&amp;A should offset the ITO impact next year.
Net-net we're bringing down our operating cash flow guidance by $200 million to $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion and our free cash flow down $100 million to $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion.
Now to first quarter guidance.
In Document Technology we anticipate revenue declines to be down mid-single digits in constant currency with actual results about four points lower given currency rates particularly the weakening of the euro and Canadian dollar.
We expect Q1 Document Technology to continue to deliver very strong margin but seasonally they'll be lower and below last year's 12.2% driven mainly by higher non-cash pension expense as well as negative currency impact.
In Services constant currency revenue growth will be at the low end of our 2% to 4% full year guidance range driven by tougher compares expected timing of ramping awarded new business and slower Document Outsourcing growth.
We expect currency to have about a three point negative impact.
We expect margins to be seasonally lower but up modestly year-over-year.
At the consolidated level for the first quarter we expect revenue will be down 1 to 2 points at constant currency with 3 to 4 points of negative currency impact.
Adjusted earnings per share is expected to be $0.20 to $0.22 which includes approximately $0.02 of restructuring.
The decline versus $0.26 last year is driven by higher non-cash pension expense adverse currency higher OID given a prior-year gain on asset sale as well as a higher tax rate 26% planned this year versus 20% last year.
That's partially offset by improvements in Services' operational performance as well as lower share count.
Overall we're making progress in our core business operations and will be working hard to offset the pressure we're seeing from currency.
With that I'll hand it back to you Ursula.
Thanks Kathy.
I want to get to your questions so I will summarize quickly.
Our fourth quarter shows our strategy is sound and the decisions we've made have put us on the right path forward.
We're seeing the benefits of strong operating profit from Document Technology and improving profits and revenue in Services where we're making visible progress.
Our Services business is now better positioned for future growth.
We know 2015 is already bringing some headwinds.
As we mentioned earlier we're watching the unprecedented movements in currencies especially the euro as Kathy outlined but as always we will manage with a disciplined approach.
We will work hard and make the necessary adjustments to our operations.
Our commitment remains the same and our diversified portfolio and strong cash flow combined with our operating model guides our priorities.
In Services building on the momentum to increase sales and profits through portfolio management improved productivity and excellent offerings.
In Document Technology capitalizing on the most advantaged segments of the business to maintain our leadership position in the industry while maintaining strong profitability and we will continue to generate healthy cash flow to deliver shareholder value.
Thank you and now over to you Jim.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today is Bob Zapfel Head of our Services business.
Also let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I ask participants to limit follow-on and multipart questions so we can get to everyone and at the end of our Q&amp;A session I will turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of George Tong with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
We saw nice Services margin expansion this quarter both on the year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter basis.
Can you discuss what's changed this quarter to yield a positive inflection in Services margins and the work you have in the pipeline to sustain the positive momentum? Sure.
I'll start and then maybe Bob can add some color.
Overall we have been working throughout the year in terms of building initiatives especially around reducing our overall cost structure from a productivity perspective looking to get greater growth out of the areas where we have higher margins and as we pivot forward towards 2015 organizationally; changing our go-to-market approach focused by industry and putting together operating capabilities that go across the company in order to help us to drive further productivity enhancements.
One of the factors was clearly our overall government healthcare solutions business stabilizing for us.
It came in I would say very consistent with our expectations and our overall margins came in consistent with our expectations as well.
So we feel good about the fact that our government healthcare business is performing a little bit better.
Obviously we had a lot of pressure in that business in 2014 and it's one of the areas as we look to 2015 that we're expecting continued improvement.
So as you look towards 2015 our fourth quarter performance I think is right in-line with what we expected in Services and it gives us that much more confidence in our 50 basis point margin expansion expectations for next year.
Bob I don't know if you want to add more color.
Yes I would just add we had good cost management generally across the board by our teams and in government healthcare we as Kathy said had stabilization and were really able to absorb investments that we were making in advance on New York and still fit if you will inside the targeted margins that we want to deliver.
So overall the plays that we've developed relative to global capabilities and managing our cost structure seemed to have reasonable yield last quarter.
And then as a follow-up we're seeing Xerox take a more verticalized industry approach in its Services business.
Can you discuss progress you are seeing with this initiative and discuss how verticalization may impact pipeline performance on a near-term and intermediate-term basis? Let me briefly cover that.
This is Bob obviously.
I would say we're seeing already better cross-selling opportunities.
So as we go to market and we've moved out of our large number of independent business units and we have a sales force that has a broader responsibility of all the offering set to those clients we're seeing better cross-selling opportunities.
We had the whole team together for a big sales kickoff and I think that that's off to a fair start.
I would say relative to pipeline as you saw from our release our overall pipeline numbers are down marginally.
There are a lot of moving parts relative to pipeline with taking ITO out and trying to count once validated as opposed to just earlier in the cycle once noticed.
But I would expect our pipeline to grow during the year as a result of the sales force additions and the focus on customers in vertical markets.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross with Cross Research.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
A question with regard to acquisitions for Ursula and Kathy and I guess Bob too actually.
Given the $900 million bogey that you've put out there for the year and then the history that we've seen over the past few years how are you thinking about ramping it up? Is this -- you've got in the hopper a couple of large ones so you feel like it can be done? Again it's a much larger number than you've done in the past and then if you can't get there I assume share repurchase is a focus but would you want to keep the cash for some other purpose? Thank you.
It's a good question.
We have been improving our acquisition flow $150 million to $350 million to $900 million this year.
It will be a difficult run for us but it is one that we're absolutely committed to and we're putting in place activities meaning people incentives to the line people people focused on deals as well to make sure that we can actually get up to the $900 million that we have laid out.
This is a good problem to have meaning we have the money and we will get a lot of it in the middle of the year and we want to spend it and people know.
So we're working through it.
I won't comment on any deals that we have in the hopper just to say that we're working on making sure that we can spend all $900 million.
If we don't spend it -- I'll actually turn it over to Kathy.
The strategy that we have is pretty much in place but she can actually just reiterate it.
Yes.
One other thing I would comment on which I'm sure I've mentioned before we have a desire to do what I would describe as chunkier deals.
We're never going to get there just doing deals at $25 million at a crack right? That's just infeasible.
So that's clearly part of the overall strategy.
And as Ursula mentioned the fact that we've loudly broadcast this hopefully helps to generate a little bit bigger pipeline.
We're also very actively engaging the business people right? Bob certainly would tell you it's something that's a top priority in the business people.
So we're working collectively across the organization in order to make this happen.
Finally on timing we recognize that this is a big step up for us in 2015 in terms of what we're trying to accomplish.
By the way the incremental money is not coming in the door until the middle of the year so just a note for folks on that.
So there is a possibility that we won't get 100% of the $900 million spent this year.
Our expectation is we would look to flow that over in trying to accomplish more in the first quarter of 2016.
We've already announced that we're going to do roughly $1 billion in share repurchases this year.
We ended the year with a strong cash balance to enable us to again be more consistent in terms of being in the market consistently.
So that's what we expect to do with the money and we're all working hard to get it deployed as fast as possible.
And then as a follow-up can you talk a little bit about what your metrics are around potential acquisitions? How we should think about accretion what you're focused on from a financial standpoint when you look at prospective acquisitions.
First and foremost we're focused on what I would call return-adjusted risk-adjusted returns.
We're interested in doing good deals.
We've been historically very disciplined we're certainly not going to change that in our approach.
So first and foremost that's what we're interested in.
Of course we always look at what's the accretive dilutive nature of the transaction how much are we paying for it etcetera we're focused on trying to do deals that generate synergies because then we have more dollars to play with in what's a pretty competitive marketplace.
But those are some of the things that we're focused on overall and I say before any of the math we're focused on buying companies that are a great strategic fit for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Mr.
Huang with JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
It's Tien-tsin.
Just want to ask on the Services margin front again just all the different puts and takes.
I know there is a lot of government healthcare expenses etcetera you've got some project delays with Texas and Florida.
So can it be higher if we normalize for government and healthcare and some of these unusual items? Trying to understand what's going on underneath the business in Services on the margin front if that makes sense.
Well the overall margins are still lower as a result of our margin dynamics in government healthcare.
So without question the Services portfolio runs at an overall higher margin than we publish as a result of the investments that we're still making in government healthcare.
But I think as we said we've got that stabilized.
We had improvement both sequentially and quarter-to-quarter.
But as we're looking to ramp up you'll remember from the investor conference a reasonable source of our targeted improvement in 2015 this year was coming out of GHS.
We talked about that as being 25 to 40 basis points of potential improvement.
So that is still our focus and we think we have got strong plans to yield that.
One other comment I would add is if you went back to the investor conference along the things that we're targeting -- improvement in government healthcare delivering productivity through our now horizontal operational capabilities continuing portfolio management investing in our platforms there is a yield we expect from that beyond 2015 as well right? So 50 basis point solid improvement is what we're trying to put up on the board this year with an expectation that that would continue.
Just my follow-up then on Texas Florida.
How much visibility do you have on the timing of that? To the extent that those things are pushed out could that have any revenue and margin impact? What's the cushion there? Thank you.
I think you mean New York and Florida not Texas and Florida but Bob will answer it.
Yes we built the 2% to 4% revenue growth commitment that we've made with a plan to get both Florida and New York to come to closure in the first half.
We're still very much on track with both of them in terms of meeting the milestones.
So I would say that we're on track with both.
They are in our range and we don't expect either of them to not be successful in terms of us being a partner with those clients both with Medicaid in New York State and with tolling in Florida.
Our next question comes from the line of Ben Reitzes with Barclays Capital.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to ask about puts and takes for the guidance a little more for 2015.
In the fourth quarter it looks like bad debt year-over-year was a $0.025 benefit and now moving into 2015 I was wondering what bad debt was for the year versus currency.
If that goes the other way with what's going on in some of the economies you serve.
I was wondering if the guidance actually had offsets for if that goes the other direction.
And then I had a quick follow-up.
Thanks.
Sure.
As we look at our fourth quarter beat in Doc Tech we recognize that some of the beat is coming out of bed debt; some of the beat was coming out of pension right? So we ended the year at a higher level overall for the full year than what we would have talked about at our investor conference last November.
So we're taking that into account then as we look at what the year-over-year changes are expected to be.
So my commentary around -- as we stare at our margin guidance of 11% to 13% back at the investor conference I would have been more bullish on the higher end of that range versus now talking about coming down towards the middle that's taking into account.
Ben both the fact that bad debt will be a year-over-year headwind for us.
We expect bad debt overall I will call it the rate of bad debt to continue to be just fine.
It's improved over the last couple of years and that should continue but certainly we had a phenomenal 2014 in terms of what the overall bad debt expense is and so we're reflecting that in our margin guidance.
And then just a quick follow-up on Document Technology.
Are you seeing price competition from Japan based competitors who can flow through the benefits of the yen? If so how is that flowing through your margin guidance as well which you just commented on for that segment? We have been asked this question I feel like every quarter for the last -- since the yen moved from 85.
We haven't seen any meaningful change overall in the competitive environment.
We always have pricing impacts that range 5% to 10%.
Clearly big enterprise deals are always more hotly competed; but overall we haven't seen a meaningful shift in the market.
Our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah with Brean Capital.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
Just two if I could.
The first is just Bob with regard to any potential operating margin impact when you go ahead and sign both New York and Florida.
Can you give us some sense of whether we should expect any standup impact to manifest and what kind of contingencies you might have been able to put in place heading into those? You just seem to have pretty good visibility to standing them up.
And then I guess just the second one is when you guys announced the sale of ITO I think the commentary was that at that point you expected to be able to make up any impact to 2016 through the combination of buyback and efficiencies on the EPS line.
Now that FX is impacting EPS by about $0.05 to $0.06 do you think there is anything you can do as you go through 2016 to make up that incremental $0.05 to $0.06? And those are my two questions.
Thanks.
Let me start with the first question relative to standing up both Florida and New York we've built that into our guidance when we shared with you and the rest of the community our target to be a 50 basis points improvement in the 9% to 10% range.
We've already absorbed some of that hit in the fourth quarter with New York because we wanted to invest in advance.
So do we have to? Do we not run at as high a margin upfront in standing new contracts? Absolutely.
But that's part of our design and sourcing model and you should not need to expect any degradation as a result of winning that business.
We want to win it we plan for it and we have the cost in our outlook.
Kathy I'll turn to you on the Atos and 2016 question.
Yes.
At the time that we announced the ITO sale to Atos we brought our guidance down to reflect the impact of the dilution which we would only be able to slightly offset this year with an expectation that we would offset the remainder in 2016.
So that's really about getting the share repurchases deployed and getting the M&amp;A accomplished as well as I would say offsetting some of the friction costs associated with the transaction stranded costs that we then need to attack.
So we're still absolutely there in terms of offsetting that impact.
The second question you asked was really about currency and our ability to offset the currency impact.
Embedded in our guidance for 2015 already is an expectation we're going to offset a little bit of that impact.
You heard me in my prepared remarks say it's worth a little over $0.06.
We're bringing down our EPS guidance by $0.05.
So we're expecting that we're going to drive harder to offset some of that impact and it's built-in already.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
A question and a clarification the clarification first.
Kathy the $0.06 that you talk about for FX does that include the benefit of the yen to cost of goods sold for the printing side? And how much is that benefit in 2015 due to the yen? So it includes everything and so as you can imagine for any global company everything is a big everything.
It includes all the translation impacts right? So we talked a lot about impacts to revenue and those impacts have some flow-through to profit.
The ultimate margin impact of that is a little bit dampened because it's hitting both revenue as well as profit.
And it includes all of our purchasing and the hedging that we do associated with purchasing.
So it is all-in.
My question is -- I'm going to direct it to Bob.
If you think about the sale of the ITO business Bob if you look back over the last two years and I realize you haven't been there over the two years.
But if you think about the BPO side of the business is there a way that you could quantify how that BPO business was tied to ITO? In other words when you think about the work of -- how much of the ITO business or the BPO business had ITO tied to it? And what I'm really going back to is the thought process around -- how is the sale of ITO going to impact the ability of Xerox to win BPO business as you look forward to? I understand you can outsource to folks like Cognizant or [inaudible] I should say to Cognizant but I'm just wondering how it might impact your win-rate by not having in-house ITO capabilities.
Thank you.
Yes.
No I appreciate the question.
This was a really big strategic thought for us because obviously we're betting a lot on our ability to drive growth in BPO and Document Outsourcing.
When we looked -- I won't just do the two years I will go at our portfolio.
We had ITO in a little over half of our BPO revenue stream but at a very very modest amount.
So most of our big BPO plays had little server management.
I'm not on the ITO contracts themselves which were big contracts for us.
And we really have found in the -- I guess we're 30 days plus 40 days we have a very good customer reaction.
So as we go around with our clients and say our future delivery model includes Atos as a delivery partner as a piece of this delivery ecosystem.
I do not view it as something that's going to compromise or put us at a competitive disadvantage.
They bring a lot of assets relative to the ITO space and we think that that team is an even better team for our BPO business than going it alone.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Essex with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess the first question for Kathy.
As we think about some of the headwinds in particular to cash flow this year whether it's FX or pension expenses and we talk about normalized cash flow being over $2 billion cash from operations how do we think about how some of those pieces may move? Or how do you think about them as we're forecasting for 2016 and beyond? I guess which ones would you expect to be more prominent in 2015 given where interest rates and FX are? And when might we see a greater inflection or will we see a greater inflection towards normalized cash flow in '16 and beyond? Particularly post the sale of ITO.
I'm going to just start with a discussion about free cash flow right? We brought our free cash flow guidance down by $100 million.
Part of that obviously reflects the sale of the ITO business.
We would expect to start to offset that as we do more M&amp;A basically utilizing the proceeds.
So I would call that impact transitory impact right? Clearly we've said we think we'll be able to offset some of the currency impacts in 2015 reflected in the guidance that we gave with respect to free cash flow.
But the company is an incredibly I would say solid and consistent cash flow producer and the sale of the ITO business is really just a modest transitory impact on cash flow.
I'm not going to try and call where currencies go in 2016 but obviously we're going to do everything that we can to offset the currency impact as much as possible.
Overall with regard to pension we're increasing our pension funding this year by about $50 million.
I would expect our pension funding starts to stabilize at that point unless there is an opportunity to do something more materially with our pension which at this point I don't necessarily see.
So I think the overall factors around our cash flow are very solid.
We've reduced it at the moment for some transitory issues but I wouldn't expect those to last forever.
Okay.
And can we get a sense of the capital intensity that ITO accounted for? And where might that have been offset by redeploying those funds into other areas? Yes.
Our ITO business was in the Services side clearly our most capital-intensive business lower ROIC business for us which strategically is much of behind the sale.
Not to mention we were a subscale player in ITO relative to some of our competitors.
So from that perspective its impact on free cash flow is much less and its impact on operating cash flow which is part of the reason we only brought it down modestly.
We would expect we're going to deploy it into BPO which is not nearly as capital intensive.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Shope with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
There are obviously a few moving parts in the technology business this year so I wanted to understand the timing of some of the puts and takes you've talked about.
So could you give us a bit more color on how we should think about the revenue trajectory margin path and some of these product cycle dynamics as we progress through the year? And I guess particularly how we think about the dynamics as we move from first half to second half.
Sure.
As we progress through the year just in terms of the revenue dynamics going on in Doc Tech we'll get a bit of a benefit as a result of just from a year-over-year comp perspective.
You know not doing the forward receivable sales anymore.
So that had in the third and the fourth quarter about point of negative impact in 2014.
So we will get an easier comp towards the back half of the year.
From a foreign currency perspective on Doc Tech with regard to top line translation impacts to top line have been immediately.
The flip side of that is what's going on in transaction impacts.
The transaction impacts don't hit us immediately as a result of our hedging program.
So that's a little bit more back half it gets worse relative to front half as a result that's obviously a profit and a margin constraint as opposed to a revenue constraint.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of color.
Our next question comes from the line of James Friedman with Susquehanna.
Your line is now open.
Please proceed with your question.
I just had a housekeeping question; I'll ask all mine upfront.
So Kathy I just want to make sure that -- am I correct that the New York Medicaid is not in the signings number at this point? My next question for Bob was if you could comment about the pricing environment.
And also Bob are there any problem contracts [inaudible] Nevada or Texas that you would call out at this point? Or if that's too specific if you could talk about the risk management at the firm overall? Thank you.
I can probably answer all of those.
So yes Jamie you're right New York is not in those signings numbers neither New York nor Florida and while our overall signings were strong and the numbers were very positive we do need to get new business ramped up and that's a big piece of that.
Relative to the problem contract question I would say we've made real progress in terms of the new systems implementations.
We've got a strong team that we've added in 2014 that's really been driving that.
So you can never say never in terms of issue in a given implementation.
But overall we've made very good progress there and we're optimistic that we won't have big financial hits as a result of future problem contracts.
Our last question will come from the line of Jim Suva with Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
The signings number was very impressive for the quarter.
A lot of times there is seasonality to them and maybe some deferrals that come in and things like that and so if you look at one quarter your snapshot is very very impressive.
If you look at a trailing 12 month quarter run rate you still have down 13%ish for a trailing 12 quarters.
So can you help us bridge the gap of that trailing 12 months versus a very strong quarter and the outlook for surfaces and your confidence to grow that Services? Thank you.
Jim no I would agree.
We were happy with the quarter and the year-to-year growth that we had in the quarter but still as you represented we're down double digits on a trailing 12-month basis.
And again the big piece that would have changed that is if we would have had a little bit earlier timing in either New York or Florida but those are in front of us as opposed to already booked and in our signings numbers.
But the renewals have been really strong.
We have seven out of the last eight quarters in BPO that we've been over 90% so we're very positive on the renewal rates and it's really a new business getting more traction in our new business initiatives and we believe we will do that in 2015.
That is a critical critical element for us maybe more on our 2016 revenue than on 2015 but it's a critical element for us and we're very focused on it.
And then as a quick follow-up you have a couple big contracts and on the call you made some references to New York and Florida that are not in the signings and I understand that correctly.
But once they come into signings is there also a little bit of a timing item we should be aware of as far as when they get included into your revenues? I.e.
like immediately when they sign then the next day you can start to recognize revenues? Or is there a hey you signed it and then you have to sit down and talk about phases and timing and sometimes a quarter or two? Because each of those look to be quite substantial and I don't want to get too excited or maybe I should that they immediately start to enter the revenue stream.
Yes we generally begin to recognize revenue pretty quickly but there is a ramp.
So it's that you're not at full annualized revenue in the first quarter after the signing but I would expect in both and the way we've built our track is we expect in both New York and Florida to sign in the first half to then start a revenue flow not at high margins but that's all built into our guidance.
But it does take a little bit of time typically about two quarters before you get to the annualized run-rate.
Thank you.
That's all the time we have for questions today.
Thank you for your interest And Ursula anything more to wrap up? Yes.
In summary we have a clear and consistent plan in place and in 2014 we were successful in advancing our strategic initiatives.
We have a focused management team you've heard from them today prepared to deliver the plan and in 2015 we're committed to enhancing our overall Services business while maintaining our market leadership in Document Technology.
Additionally we will continue to make investments to move the business forward.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
And if you have any further questions please contact me or any member of the Investor Relations team.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a good day everyone.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the expressed permission of Xerox.
After the presentation there will be a question-and-answer session.
During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
Ms.
Burns you may begin the call.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
Today we reported our first quarter results and provided full year guidance lowering expectations.
I'll start with a brief reminder of our direction and then provide an overview of our Q1 performance.
Kathy will review the financials and then we'll take your questions.
Our diversified portfolio strong Annuity business and solid free cash flow enabled us to participate and invest in the attractive markets that will drive growth.
Services represents 56% of our total revenue and we expect that proportion to continue to grow.
We are the leader in diversified business process services and we are maintaining leadership in Document Technology.
Over the last few years we have taken significant steps to lay the foundation for sustainable long-term success.
We are differentiating ourselves by incorporating greater automation and intelligence in our solutions and products all with the goal of helping our clients better manage their critical business processes.
As an example we recently launched the Midas+ readmission forecaster an advanced analytics healthcare solution to help hospitals drive quality improvement around patient care and reduce Medicare penalties for excess hospital readmissions.
Additionally we introduced our new mobility analytics platform which makes it significantly easier for transport and parking operators to understand and even predict commuter needs.
VINCI Park the world's leading parking space provider is testing the system in a town in the suburbs of Paris.
Within Document Technology we retained our number one position in equipment revenue market share for the 21st straight quarter and we launched eight new products plus workflow solutions reinforcing our leadership in mobile printing inkjet technology and digital color.
Lastly our solid balance sheet and strong free cash flow along with the proceeds from the pending ITO divestiture will enable us to continue to deliver strong shareholder returns.
We have returned more than 50% of free cash flow to shareholders over the last four years and plan to do the same this year by repurchasing up to $1 billion in shares and returning approximately $300 million to shareholders in dividends.
At the same time we will continue to invest in our business organically and through acquisitions.
Now let's look at our performance in the quarter.
In the first quarter we reported total revenue of $4.5 billion down 6% 2% in constant currency.
And we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.21.
Earnings were in line with our guidance but the performance of our Services business was below our expectations principally because of implementation issues in certain legacy Health Enterprise platform accounts.
It's important to note that many areas of our Services business performed quite well in the quarter this includes Document Outsourcing and several of our commercial vertical industry groups.
We continue to perform well in Commercial Healthcare.
As many of you may have seen we finalized the New York Medicaid contract that we were awarded last year.
We have invested in advance to ensure our good start and we look forward to working with the state to serve their Medicaid population.
That said in Services we have more work to do to improve our financial performance.
We continue to align our go-to-market resources along vertical industries and we're investing in sales coverage and training.
At the same time we're focused on driving more consistent delivery and capturing efficiencies through our new operating model.
And specifically within our Health Enterprise accounts we have taken action to address the issues.
We continue to add expertise in the most critical areas of this business.
Our operating performance and delivery quality continue to improve and I'm confident in the Services and Healthcare teams.
Kathy will go into more detail on the financials in a moment.
And we can have additional discussion during the Q&amp;A.
Our Document Technology results which included the increased impact from foreign currency largely met our expectations.
It continues to be a business where we generate strong profits and cash.
In quarter one we delivered shareholder value by repurchasing shares supporting our dividend program and acquiring Intrepid Learning Systems (sic) [Intrepid Learning Solutions] to enhance our services capabilities.
Now I'll turn it over to Kathy who will provide more details on the quarter and cover guidance.
Chief Financial Officer</strong> Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
We delivered Q1 EPS in the middle of our range with solid cash flow of $113 million.
However as Ursula mentioned the quarter was challenging in many respects.
Some challenges have been contemplated such as negative currency impacts higher pension expense and in Services the timing of investments relative to improved productivities from our global capabilities.
However we failed to accurately call the incremental financial pressure we're experiencing in our Government Healthcare business from the rollout of our Health Enterprise Medicaid platform.
Our delivery quality and operating performance continue to improve but the financials were a clear signal that we have more work ahead.
I'll take you through more details on that when I cover the Services segment but first let me walk you through the total company results for the quarter.
Total revenue in the quarter was down 6% at actual currency and 2% at constant currency as growth in Services was offset by declines in Document Technology.
The negative currency impact of 4 points in the quarter was at the high end of our expectations and reflected the continued strengthening of the dollar within the quarter.
Gross margin of 31.2% was down 30 basis points year-over-year driven by Services.
RD&amp;E was modestly lower year-over-year driven by reductions in Document Technology.
SAG in absolute dollar terms was lower year-over-year driven by currency.
However as a percent of revenue SAG was up 70 basis points year-over-year to 20.5% as productivity benefits were more than offset by higher pension expense and the investments in Services.
As a result our first quarter operating margin decreased 110 basis points year-over-year and operating profit declined 18% with the largest drivers being pension expense the financial pressure from our Health Enterprise implementations and currency.
Moving down the income statement adjusted other net expense was $5 million lower year-over-year.
Within that lower gains on sales of assets and higher currency losses were offset by lower restructuring costs and lower interest expense.
Equity income was $34 million in the quarter down $8 million year-over-year driven by the impact of negative translation currency.
Our Q1 adjusted tax rate of 24.5% was at the low end of our range and up 4 percentage points year-over-year.
Adjusted EPS of $0.21 was at the midpoint of our guidance and $0.05 lower year-over-year driven by the operating profit decline.
I'll now move to Services segment to review those results in a little more detail.
Services revenue declined 3% and was up 1% at constant currency which was a bit shy of where we expected to come in.
Document Outsourcing constant currency growth up 2% was in line with our expectation.
BPO growth up 1% at constant currency was a bit light of what we were targeting with the Health Enterprise platform implementations producing less revenue than we had anticipated.
We continue to see good BPO growth in Commercial Healthcare and other commercial industry verticals.
We anticipate our revenue growth rate will improve in the second half as we lap the impact of last year's larger contract losses and begin to ramp the New York Medicaid and Florida Tolling deals.
M&amp;A also remains a variable factor to growth depending on timing of acquisitions.
Our renewal rate in the quarter was 91% evidence that overall we're delivering well for our clients.
I should note that we are now including Document Outsourcing in our renewal rate in addition to BPO.
Overall it was a really strong renewal quarter.
Total signings in the quarter were down 13% driven by both lower new business signings and lower renewal opportunities.
New business signings declined 26% year-over-year.
We mentioned on our last call that we've aligned our sales force to specific industry verticals.
We recently moved our Document Outsourcing sales force into the same structure to better enable cross-selling opportunities.
We are continuing to invest in increased sales coverage and training which takes time to yield results and should positively impact new business signings as we move through 2015.
Additionally our signings did not include the New York Medicaid contract which was finalized after the end of the quarter; and the new Florida Tolling contract which is still pending.
These new signings will reverse the downward signings trend this quarter.
Turning to margin segment margin was 7.5% in the quarter which was down 110 basis points year-over-year and well below our objective of modest year-over-year improvement.
As referenced earlier the driver of the Services margin miss was lower revenue and more costs than anticipated with our Health Enterprise platform implementation.
California had the largest impact on our results in the quarter.
We successfully implemented the first phase at the end of last year however recent estimates to deliver the remaining phases are higher.
We also had start-up costs in New York with no revenue offset as the contract didn't get finalized until April.
Margin excluding those impacts would have been up 10 basis points year-over-year so a very modest improvement.
We saw margin improvements in a number of lines of business including Document Outsourcing as well as some of our commercial verticals.
At the same time we're continuing to invest in our industry and capability operating model sales coverage and training as well as some new offerings which Ursula discussed.
As we move through the year we expect to see our investments mature and produce more value.
We should also see further productivity gains as we rollout our initiatives across our operating groups.
Before moving on I'm going to take a minute to further discuss the financial challenges we're facing in our Health Enterprise implementation.
With the exception of the New York Medicaid contract these deals were signed before we finished development of the core software platform.
We had delayed finishing the new platform and meeting client delivery dates resulting in cost increases.
In the case of California as the new project plan was built out further we recognized that the cost to complete the entire program would increase which triggered an adjustment in the quarter.
In contrast New York was bid after the Health Enterprise platform was completed and we've been investing ahead to position us for a strong start.
Operationally the platform is performing well in the states where it's been rolled out and we're progressing on the implementations in other states.
However we have more work ahead to turnaround the financial performance.
We're taking a number of additional actions to improve the picture and have adjusted our expectations to reflect what we believe is required to meet our customer commitment.
This is the main driver of our revised Services margin guidance which I'll get to more detail when I review guidance in a few minutes.
Now I'm going to turn to Document Technology.
Document Technology revenue in the quarter was largely in line with our guidance with adverse currency coming in at the high-end of our expectations.
On a constant currency basis revenue was down 6% which was consistent with last year's rate of decline.
Currency was a 4 point drag on revenue with revenue at actual currency down 10%.
While we don't typically include developing markets in our constant currency calculation we are impacted when currencies devalue quickly.
In the first quarter revenue at constant currency would have been down 5% if we excluded the impact of currency on developing markets.
Relative to our performance in the fourth quarter we saw some moderation of equipment revenue declines at constant currency as we began to see some benefits from the second half 2014 new product launches.
Offsetting this were modestly-worse Annuity revenue declines driven by supplies revenue declines in the Entry segment.
Looking at Entry it continues to be impacted by economic weakness and uncertainty in developing markets especially Eurasia and Brazil.
We anticipate some improvement in the rate of declines as benefit from new products grow but overall we continue to expect economic headwinds to weigh on Entry.
Mid-range mono and color activity were relatively flat year-over-year and overall mid-range results showed improvement.
High-end continues to show good Annuity revenue performance although equipment was weaker in the quarter driven by the timing of new product launches as well as a couple of deals slipping into the second quarter.
Document Technology margins were down 110 basis points with almost the entire decline driven by higher pension expense.
As previously discussed the higher pension expense this year is a function of higher pension settlement given lower discount rates as well as last year's mortality table change.
So overall core Document Tech business performance continues to be strong and we're focused on improving top line by capitalizing on our growth opportunities in the market.
Before I go through the cash flow I'd like to remind everyone that while our ITO results are included in discontinued operations pending the sale to Atos ITO is still in our operating cash flow until we close the transaction.
ITO was a use of $13 million in the quarter and a use of $32 million in free cash flow.
Overall cash flow from operations was $113 million in the quarter solidly positive and reflecting the progress that we've made smoothing working capital impacts over the past couple of years.
A couple of highlights to note within operating cash flow.
The add-back for depreciation is lower than last year by about $50 million and reflects in part the write-down of the carrying value of the ITO assets to fair value now that it's being held for sale.
Working capital is a use of cash which is consistent with our normal seasonality and largely consistent with 2014.
Inventory was a larger use this year reflecting a higher level of in-transit inventory and timing of sales.
Additionally accounts receivable was a higher use this year primarily due to the strong fourth quarter collections particularly in Services.
Moving down the cash flow statement.
Investing cash flows were a $98 million use including $95 million spent on CapEx in the quarter and $28 million on acquisition.
Cash flow from financing was a use of $485 million which included net debt payments of approximately $150 million $216 million spent on share repurchases and $76 million used for preferred and common stock dividends.
Now I'm going to quickly go over our capital structure.
We ended the first quarter with $7.6 billion in debt.
During the quarter we retired $1 billion in senior notes and issued $400 million in five year notes with a coupon of 2.75% and $250 million in 20 year notes with a coupon of 4.8%.
Applying 7-to-1 leverage on customer financing assets our allocated financing debt at the end of the first quarter was $3.9 billion leaving core debt of $3.7 billion.
We manage our core debt to maintain credit metrics consistent with our investment grade rating.
So our capital structure remains pretty stable.
If we go onto the next slide I'll review where we're at in terms of capital allocation.
Our capital allocation plans for the year are unchanged and as previously communicated incorporates the redeployment of the expected net proceeds of roughly $850 million from the ITO sale which should close later this quarter.
On share repurchases we spent $216 million in the quarter and continued to plan to spend about $1 billion for purchasing stock this year.
We continue to view our shares as attractively priced and a good investment.
On acquisitions we closed one acquisition in the quarter Intrepid Learning Systems (sic) [Intrepid Learning Solutions] for $28 million.
We continue to look to spend up to $900 million in 2015 and plan to rollover any unspent funds into 2016.
Acquisitions are a priority for us as we believe it's an important element of our portfolio management strategy to evolve our portfolio to higher value services as well as supporting BPO expansion internationally.
We're very disciplined in our approach.
Our pipeline is strong and we've actively considered more deals year-to-date than last year.
We're working to further build our business development capabilities so we can be more acquisitive and expand our pipeline of potential targets.
Now onto debt.
We have one more tranche of debt coming due this year $250 million in June.
We expect debt to temporarily decline in conjunction with the receipt of the ITO proceeds and plan to complete additional refinancing activity as needed in the second half.
We continue to expect to end the year at roughly $7.7 billion in debt.
And finally on dividends we spent just under $300 million which contemplates the recent 12% dividend increase we announced on our last earnings call.
Before I turn it back to Ursula I'd like to summarize our expectations for the second quarter and for the full year.
For the second quarter we expect adjusted EPS in the range of $0.21 to $0.23 with constant currency revenue down about 2 points and currency pressuring top line by another 5 points reflecting the dollar strengthening a bit from the first quarter.
For Document Technology revenue we expect the constant currency rate of decline to modestly improve from the first quarter with a negative currency impact of 5 points to 6 points.
Margin should be within our 11% to 13% range for the year up sequentially but down year-over-year driven by the increased pension cost and currency.
For Services we expect the second quarter year-over-year revenue growth to be roughly flat at constant currency with a negative currency impact of 4 points to 5 points.
Slow growth reflects softer signings as well as the timing of new contract ramp versus lost contract runoff and slower acquisition activity.
We anticipate second quarter margins will be approximately flat sequentially reflecting period compare headwinds in Document Outsourcing continued higher cost to implement our Health Enterprise platforms and incremental investments not yet fully offset by productivity gains.
Document Outsourcing margins continue to be strong with normal year-over-year compares in the second half.
For the full year at constant currency we expect Services revenue will now be at the low-end of the 2% to 4% range no change to Document Technology with revenue expected to decline 4% to 5% and total company revenue now expected to be down about a point year-over-year.
We expect currency will have a negative 4 point impact to total revenue for the year.
We're maintaining our Document Technology margin expectations but reducing our Services margin guidance to 8.5% to 9% due to higher costs within our Health Enterprise implementation and not as much net benefit from enhanced productivity relative to investments.
In total we expect this to yield adjusted EPS of $0.95 to $1.01.
To conclude while we are disappointed with the guidance revision we are making decisions to the long-term to ensure that we're taking the necessary actions to drive sustainable growth and margin improvement in the future.
With that I'll hand it back over to you Ursula.
Thanks Kathy.
I want to get to your questions so I'll summarize quickly.
Although earnings met expectations it was a challenging quarter.
As Kathy detailed a moment ago we are lowering our full year guidance.
We know we have work to do to achieve sustainable long-term success.
I'm confident in our business strategy our strong portfolio and our ability to succeed in the many industries that we serve.
Going forward in Services we are focused on revenue and margin expansion.
Improved signings and executing on our new operating model will help us there.
Document Technology continues to execute well and we remain focused on leading in the most attractive segments of the market.
Overall we anticipate positive results from the changes that we've made and I'm certain that the actions that we're taking today will ensure a healthy Xerox for tomorrow and beyond.
So thank you for listening and now I'll turn it over to Leslie.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today is Bob Zapfel Head of our Services business.
Also let me point out we that have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today's presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I'd ask participants to limit follow-on and multi-part questions so we can get to everyone.
At the end of our Q&amp;A session I'll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Bill Shope from Goldman Sachs.
Okay great.
Thank you.
I have a question on the Services segment in general.
The volatility and the unexpected shortfalls we've seen on Services margins has obviously been a problem for some time now for different reasons for different quarters.
But I guess when we look at this quarter specifically and the cost overruns for the California case what safeguards are being put in place to ensure that we don't see this happen again with other contracts that maybe we can't see from the outside? And why aren't we seeing more substantial restructuring to deal with what appears to be a pretty uncertain margin path of this business overall? President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Okay.
Bill it's Bob.
Let me start.
So relative to – actions relative to our Enterprise platform with Government Healthcare we are taking a number of actions to try to drive improved visibility and predictability there.
We're increasing the leadership focus and we've added additional external talent.
These are five accounts.
So this is not across our broad portfolio.
This is the implementation of a new system and in the five states we talked about at the investor conference we've added project management oversight in each of these projects to try to drive better predictability.
We're working to consolidate the customized instances into a standardized platform that would then be less costly to implement and manage going forward.
We're lining up additional partners to help us with software development integration capability and trying to better leverage low cost resources for platform development.
And we're pursuing add-on work with a number of these clients to give us some incremental revenue.
Relative to your question on restructuring we were down 2 000 people from the end of the fourth quarter to the end of the first quarter in our Services business overall.
So we're just trying to manage to drive improved productivity broadly across our Services portfolio.
If I could just add onto that when we look at sort of the metrics you're judging this stabilization by I mean is this something that you expect by the time we get to 2016 we're back on track? Obviously we saw your full-year margin guidance so we get some color on the path you're looking at for this year.
But sort of what are you sort of putting in front of you as targets to get back on track and show that some of these safeguards are actually bearing fruit? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> So overall in terms of some of the incremental actions that we're taking to make sure that we've fully considered what's going to be needed we've obviously made more room in our margin guidance.
So Health Enterprise costs generally expected to also be a year-over-year headwind for us in the second quarter.
We've added additional both financial management resources and expanded the financial teams in this area that sit over the accounts specifically in California which is where we had the big adjustment for the quarter.
As we look out to 2016 the most important influence is getting more and more of these implementations under our belt right? So Bob mentioned we have five accounts two have already been implemented another one will be implemented next year.
So getting these implementations under our belt where the contracts were signed three plus years ago is what we really need to get behind us.
And you can see that we've taken big adjustments on California to really reflect the expectation of higher go-forward costs.
Okay.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
Thank you very much.
I have another Services oriented question.
Bob sort of taking a step back because in the last question you discussed a lot on the healthcare side.
Can you talk a bit about what you're seeing in the other parts of the business and how you're sort of thinking about some of those areas in terms of growth and margin opportunity once we sort of get through this healthcare issue? And then I have a question on acquisitions.
Thanks.
President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Thanks Shannon.
Yes I would say as you and others have got good visibility to we've moved to this new industry go-to-market and global capability model.
And I would say that early indications are very positive on both elements of that.
So we're finding – the pipeline data doesn't look great quarter-to-quarter but we found that from January February March we had an improved pipeline as we put new resources in place.
We bolstered up the sales team that we think will drive to improvements in our second-half results.
In the global capability model if you think back to our kind of margin improvement track we think we're going get very good yield out of that.
So overall I would say that we've got positive signs relative to the model in general.
And the customer feedback has largely been favorable.
Okay.
And then can you talk a bit about – I'm not sure who wants to take it but from an acquisition standpoint $900 million you've talked about you made a very small acquisition during the first quarter.
What kind of acquisitions sort of what size I mean is this something where we can actually assume it will get done this year because I know you're talking about pushing cash now into 2016.
I'm just looking at with the stock down double-digits right now perhaps share repurchase might be a better use of cash? Or just how are you sort of thinking about cash as we go forward here? Thank you.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Okay.
So this is Kathy.
Overall if you look at our activity kind of year-over-year I would describe us as having more activity this year than last year.
Now activity doesn't always immediately translate into getting things done.
But that activity has been more focused on I think what I described on our last call as chunkier-sized deals right? So we are looking to not just do the deal size of the one deal that we did this quarter but looking at things that are a little larger which can make more of a difference for us.
We're targeting specific areas.
I mean when you look across our portfolio we've got a great business in Commercial Healthcare.
There are places we'd like to continue to build out that business.
Transportation is an area of target for us.
We've talked about the continued move into workflow within our Document Outsourcing group; so that's an area.
And then as we look to continue to expand internationally we do need a bigger footprint and acquisitions can help us in that space as well.
So they're as you can imagine tough to call it's tough to call in which quarter are we actually going land things.
But we're certainly generating more activity and looking to do larger deals.
And then in the second part of your question so what about share repurchases we are committed to doing about $1 billion of share repurchases this year.
We know M&amp;A timing is hard to call.
It's important for us as we continue to look at evolving our portfolio.
And so if we don't spend the $900 million we will roll it over into next year.
Next question? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tien-Tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Great.
Thanks.
Just on the healthcare side.
I just I guess heard the incremental $30 million in spend.
I guess that was on top of the $20 million maybe last year.
So I'm just curious in the hindsight here is this just – I heard the platform implementation issues you called out.
But in hindsight was it a missed pricing issue just thinking about what went wrong I get again the implementation problems but could this have been resolved if you had priced these contracts differently? And then I just want to pull that forward into New York and just being confident here that you have a good line of sight into the ramp there at the price that you wanted? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And so if you look at the situation in California which triggered the adjustment that we took this quarter we had made a decision with the state of California to do this in a staged implementation rather than a single cutover right and that caused us to have to basically kind of restage and rework our project plan.
As we got into the further details of what that was going to cost right the cost for the overall implementation went up.
And that triggered us to have to take an adjustment this quarter.
So we scrubbed much further what that project plan was going to look like.
It's the right answer for the clients and for us to do a staged implementation.
It reduces the risk of execution.
But at the end of the day we now understand that it's going to cost more.
And this is a contract that was signed years years ago and in advance of our standard platform being completed.
If I contrast that then because you asked about New York New York is very different because New York we actually bid a standard contract right.
And in addition to bidding a standard contract we were awarded this contract last May.
We started standing up resources towards the end of the third quarter in order to really get us on a right track with New York so we're very excited about New York.
And it's a different situation than I'll say the legacy implementations that we had pre-New York.
President-Xerox Services</span></strong> If I would just add on New York I think the dominant difference is that we were able to bid an already-working system which as opposed to what we did in the other states we hadn't already completed the core software asset.
And as Kathy mentioned we have been in front of the contract being finalized.
We have been investing to ensure a very rapid start which on the other implementations we didn't start until after the contract was signed.
So we're very optimistic that we're well positioned to deliver well both for New York and for our shareholders with that opportunity.
We were focused on making sure that California for sure but New York very specifically in this conversation starts well and we – before we had revenue knowing that we were investing before we had revenue we took that risk because it's really important.
The long game here is very important to keep an eye on.
And so we took a hit in the quarter for New York as well because we didn't get it signed in the quarter but it's the right thing to do but we got signed obviously after the quarter.
Just – no that's good to know.
Just two quick follow-ups just on the Florida Tolling I know there were some disputes in the past on that.
Is that getting closer to being done? Sounds like it could happen in the second quarter.
And then just any client feedback on the ITO divestiture in terms of feedback.
Just any update there would be great.
Thank you.
President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Yes.
On Florida it is getting closer.
It is not yet complete but it is getting closer.
And on the ITO the ITO transaction with Atos the feedback has been very positive.
The consent process that both for the pure IT outsourcing clients and for the large volume of clients that we have BPO relationships with that then Atos will become a subsidiary provider has also gone very well.
So we're pleased with that.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva from Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks very much.
And I know a lot of the question has been on the Services.
Seeing how that's the strategy of your company and really one of the key go-forward vehicles I think it's very appropriate.
And so when we think about the new reset to goals of operating margins of 8.5% to 9% previously you've said your long-term goal is 10% to 12%.
Is that still valid? Has that been now you'll have to revisit that altogether? And if so what timeline should we think? I think most people think of long-term as kind of two years or three years.
You can actually reach it.
It's not some far-flung dream out there.
So can you address that please? President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Well we're not going to do the – all of the normal guidance stuff for next year until the November conference.
But my view is clearly that that long-term goal is still our target.
So I don't add.
There's nothing that I've – we're disappointed with our operating performance and we've shared that.
But I do not have a view that that's not an attainable long-term margin perspective for us with the set of actions that we're taking relative to portfolio management go-to-market by industry global capabilities.
So I don't expect us to change our view on that.
And if I may I'll just add that we're talking long-term in my lifetime.
And I mean that really really clearly.
We definitely take a step to the side today and this year but getting to 10% to 12% is something that we can do in the foreseeable future in the near-term not in the long-term.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Perfect.
And then my follow up is regarding the margins of 8.5% to 9% am I correct that folds in the New York the California the not-yet-closed Florida but likely to close contract? And is there anything about accounting Kathy that we need to be aware of like percentage of completion versus booking upfront costs to invest today that have been in a few quarters just the way you recognize the profitability of it in a couple quarters becomes less risky of another disappointment like we saw today? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah so as much as I don't like to talk about accounting on these calls I'm happy to take a little bit of diversion to do that.
I mentioned we took an adjustment for California.
So when we're implementing the platform we are using percent of completion accounting.
Right? And in that case as we got in and did the more detailed planning for the now phased implementation and costed out that more detailed plan that's what triggered us to take the adjustment in the quarter.
That adjustment in the quarter is not all cash that kind of lands in the quarter.
Right? That's a software platform that we'll be delivering over the course of this year and next kind of through these stages.
So I would call that a pretty isolated adjustment not the kind of adjustment that we would expect we'd be taking on an ongoing basis.
And it's part of the reason earlier I talked about the fact that this area gets less risky for us as we complete more and more of these implementations with the states where we signed contracts three plus years ago.
Once we get beyond the implementation right then the economics move to I'll call it the regular Medicaid transaction processing.
Right? And in addition to that we typically and even in the couple of clients that we've already cut over with the new platform we typically have the opportunity to then do add-on things and get additional revenue from those clients which we have been successfully doing and will continue to do.
President-Xerox Services</span></strong> And just on other part of your question so New York and Florida are contemplated then within the guidance that we've shared.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Tong from Piper Jaffray.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
A question for both Ursula and Kathy.
This last round of investments in Services and prior investments in Services have been predominantly focused on Government Healthcare.
Strategically Ursula when you think about returns on investment how do you think about the long-term opportunity in Government Healthcare and when can we begin to see returns from these investments in terms of incremental revenues and profits? And then Kathy related to healthcare expenses how do you think about the staging of expenses related to the New York contract and in light of potential unforeseen investments does the updated guidance range build in room for multiple scenarios? And then I have a follow-up.
Yeah so the first part of the question is important for you to ask and for us to get out on this call and just lay a foundation Government Healthcare is something that I think that Bob said earlier we've been in for more than 40 years.
And it is a business that will be around and growing with a lot of focus because of the aging population regulation changes in the United States you know all of the foundational elements.
We make in this business above average margins.
This is above average Services margins in this business.
It's important to know that.
And that we are very successful and liked by our clients.
We do business in many many states.
We service millions of recipients benefit from those states.
And it's a very profitable business for us.
Once we get past laying down the platform which is really complicated and what we did for good for better for ugly but the facts are that we actually implemented a brand new platform in these five states that readies us for the future of aging and new regulation et cetera.
It's been more challenging then even I would like for it to be but it is one that with many – with continuous review we keep coming down on the fact that this is a good business and a business that can be profitable for sure.
It is already in the historic counts and we just have to make it that way in the new accounts.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> And I have one quick add and I'll get to your question with regard to sort of staging on the Health Enterprise accounts.
Overall when we talk about investments in Services outside of our Government Healthcare group we're investing in things like sales leadership training tools new offerings this shift to our new industry business group sort of vertical approach in adding leadership in there.
So when we talk about investments it's clearly outside of the Government Healthcare solution business as well.
With regard to kind of the staging so clearly the first quarter we took a big adjustment in California.
As I described that's a pretty isolated instance.
If I look over 2015 for sort of the pattern of what we're expecting in the Health Enterprise accounts I would describe this as first half sort of heavy on incremental costs and expecting in the second half that we're actually going to get a reasonable amount of pickup.
Now it's still going be a drag on a full year basis.
Right? So if you look at the adjustment that we made overall to our margins originally when we gave guidance back in November we said we thought we were going to get 25 basis points to 50 basis points largely candidly from these Health Enterprise accounts improving.
Right? I would describe that now on a full year basis embedded in our guidance is taking into consideration we might actually see a little bit of dilution overall on our margins for the year.
So we thought – we think as we've revised our guidance that we've really taken into consideration that some of these things are tough to call.
They're pretty complicated projects.
And we need to make sure that we have room if there's any changes and we've taken that into account.
That's helpful.
Kathy said in her – sorry – I think Kathy said in her notes that without the health accounts in the first quarter we would have been up 10 basis points in margin.
And this year as Kathy said we don't – we expected 25 basis points to 50 basis points of improvement so our margin expansion to come from Health Enterprises.
As she said again I'm just repeating it so we can actually get it clear.
That will not happen; that 25 basis points to 50 basis points will not happen.
It will probably be a little bit of a headwind for us in 2015 not a tailwind.
And so the margin adjustment that we've taken for the full company and for Services comprehends that pressure that we're not going to make the progress that we wanted to make in Government Health from a financial perspective.
The great news about this operationally is that we are doing fairly well I think across all of the accounts there's some struggles in maybe one but we're doing fairly well operationally across these accounts.
Got it.
Next question please.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Bob.
For you please.
If you could talk a little bit about the new business signings away from New York and Florida continues to trend weak.
And if you could just talk about why you think the new business signings down 26% year-over-year and 17% trailing 12 months.
Why they're weak? And what's the plan to try to right that ship? President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Keith.
So they're weak for a couple of reasons.
I mean not getting the bigger deals is the primary cause.
So you look on a trailing 12-month basis and having – it's not just not having New York or Florida in the compare but not having anything that's really substantially large deal certainly hurts those trailing 12 months compares.
Going forward obviously we expect both of those New York being finalized and Florida that will help our dynamics through the second quarter.
And I think in the second-half of the year the changes that we've made relative to the industry go-to-market model we have been beefing up the sales force we're – 90% of the key sales positions now filled.
That's up from where we were at the time of the investor conference.
We expect to get the improvement in the second-half coming from the industry go-to-market model the investments that we've made in leadership positions and the investments that we've made in increasing our sales capacity.
Okay.
The corollary is – or the follow-on question is are you becoming more concentrated? If you're relying more on the New York MMIS deal and the Florida Toll roads as you look out over the course of the year it would seem to suggest more concentration.
Therefore if there's any issues in those contracts or other large deals from a profitability does it put you more at risk for future margin-related issues because in fact you're getting more concentration in your customer base without the new business signings? President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Well I would say that if you look at having two deals of that size in your overall signings portfolio that is not an atypical level of concentration.
So I mean again I think the weakness over a trailing 12-month is not having anything big in that set of signings.
When we move and both grow the smaller deal component and have those in what's been signed that would be to me a more typical kind of mix of signings.
So I don't think – obviously when you add big clients then that individual client is kind of a bigger share of your revenue stream.
But from an overall signings mix no I don't think a portfolio for the year that would include Florida New York and then the rest of our book of business would be more concentrated than 2012 2013 kind of what our historical rate's been.
Okay.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
And I would just add onto that Keith.
I mean if you put those two aside and we just looked at the composition of our signings kind of up until this point in time I would describe our book of signings as very diversified across our industry vertical.
Okay.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> So the addition of these two contracts doesn't really sort of sway things really materially across the portfolio.
President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Yeah both diversified across our industry verticals and across our offering.
So maybe wrongly but this is not a big worry for us at this point in terms of concentration risk of where our signings come from.
Okay.
Next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
And thanks for taking the questions.
Just two if I could Kathy and maybe Ursula.
The first one is could you list order of magnitude on the $0.05 guide down? How much comes from each of the factors from FX and then from Services revenue and from the cost side of the Services equation? And then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Okay.
So overall in terms of the $0.05 I would characterize most of it as coming from the additional costs that we're seeing in the Health Enterprise accounts.
With regard to FX if I look at how rates changed kind of where we are today versus the last time we were on this call in January the biggest change that we saw was in the euro which has weakened by about 4%.
It was partially offset by the yen weakening kind of which helps us a little.
And so net-net I would say that's a negative but it's not kind of materially a negative.
And then I would say very modestly a little bit lighter on productivity relative to investment.
So how that ramps over the course of the year for us is a little bit lighter.
But the overwhelming majority of the $0.05 move is for the additional costs we're anticipating in the Health Enterprise platform implementation.
Got it.
Thanks Kathy.
That's helpful.
And then to that end just with regards to the dynamic that you're seeing from Health Enterprise platform Kathy you mentioned that the biggest – the best way to sort of handle the situation is just to get the other three stood up and running and normalized.
Does that mean that you guys could continue to be at risk? Or I guess what I want to – the way to ask it maybe is can you provide us the appropriate context of which to sort of gauge and how you're gauging what the risk to the cost side ongoingly has given that you still have three that stand up and that the contract...
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
...was signed previously? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Sure.
We have one that's cutting over later this year I mean we're pretty close on it.
President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Right.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> And so we're pretty close to the finish line on that one.
And the closer you get to the finish line basically the less risk you have.
We talked about California and we made a big adjustment for California.
Last year we actually made an adjustment for the one other state that hasn't been cut over yet so we had sort of resized what we thought our cost expectations were going to be.
So I would characterize as we've already taken a hit on California we've adjusted the other state that hasn't yet been implemented and we're close on the one that we're going to cut over this year.
And New York doesn't have the same type of risks.
So we think that we've gotten most of the ordinary course of business contract rollout costs associated with the rollout comprehended.
Okay got it.
Got it.
Thanks.
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Next question please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Essex from Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you for taking the question.
I guess I'll pig pile on MMIS for a question.
I've seen a number of different comments out in the press about it being on a pretty aggressive timeline.
So first of all congratulations on getting it finally across the goal line.
And then as we think about the schedule going forward and that it may be an aggressive schedule I guess the question is how does that timeline compare to I guess comparable contracts? And I know you've been pre-spending but what sort of kind of I guess benchmarks do we need to consider going forward as you finally start to implement the contract? President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Yeah this is Bob.
So let me try to address that.
So it is a shorter time line than historic contracts that's the reason we started investing more than six months into advance.
So we – if you measured the timeline from date of finalization it's shorter.
If you measured the timeline from date that we started pre-investing it's aggressive but reasonable.
And we think that again it's a different situation in our view compared to the ones that we have previously done with the Health Enterprise platform because we are starting from a working code base rather than starting from something that was still in design.
So it's a – it – while it is a more aggressive time period than you might look at some historical artifacts the combination of both those two factors starting in advance and working off an existing software asset we believe that makes it a timeline that we'll be able to achieve for the state.
So Bob how does that match up with any kind of issues you might have had with previous contracts where you've -maybe you've already had this code base already developed? I mean previously have most of the contracts been on the application development side? Or has it been on back-end integration? Or what kind of gives you the confidence that in an aggressive time line you can meet those goals? President-Xerox Services</span></strong> Yeah I'm sorry Brian.
So really the previous contracts we have not yet completed the code base.
So there's been a three-year-plus gap between the last one and now in New York.
So the book of business that we signed previously we had some of the code base solidified but some of it's still if you will in design mode.
And for New York it's not as though we don't have some level of customization to do.
It's not just taking a software asset and making no modifications or changes to it.
But it is largely often existing proven code base that we're running in one of the other states.
Got it.
Maybe I can sneak one in on the printing side of the business.
I guess bookings seem a little weak.
And I think you've noted on the previous quarter that we're kind of caught a little bit of a product upgrade cycle.
I guess maybe can we put that in context of what to expect for growth there through the rest of the year given the product cycle and that there was only a little bit in last quarter and bookings seemed a little bit light this Q? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yeah so what I would say is as you look at that our expectations as we head into the second quarter is that we'll see a little bit better performance overall on high-end.
That was weak in the first quarter.
It's a place of I'd say generally strength for us from a product offering perspective and we also have other new products coming out in the second half in that area.
And we certainly expect as I mentioned in my prepared remarks that Entry's going to continue to be weak.
We expect it'll I'll call it modestly improve with new products helping but it's a big DMO-centric area.
And DMO markets just continue to be weak economically.
I think we have time for one last question please.
Thank you.
Our final question for today comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse.
Thank you.
I know this has been asked in different ways.
I just have a broad question on Services which is if we go back over a long period of time I think once upon a time Xerox stock just might...
Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Kulbinder Kulbinder I think you need to speak up.
It's very difficult to hear you.
Hi.
Can you hear me now? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Hello? Chief Financial Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
My question is over a long period of time Xerox once thought this Services business could do margins of almost 12%.
We're a long way from that now.
And I guess just is there anything more structural at hand here over the longer term competitive or otherwise and is there any more kind of deeper strategic view going on so that we don't have these kind of continuous issues whether it's been a gradual step-down over many years like whether it's addressing the cost base rethinking the strategies any of that going on? Or do you see this very much as just a kind of a normal onetime hit in 2015 from the Enterprise Health accounts? Many thanks.
So Kulbinder it's a good question.
I think a good last question as well.
We obviously spend – leadership team the board we spend a lot of time looking at performance versus strategy to make sure that the loop is continually closed and that we are on the right stack of mail.
Separating operational challenges are we on the right stack of mail for 10% to 12% margins revenue growth overall and being valuable to our clients.
And the answer is yes.
We still believe that the fundamental strategy of diversified Services portfolio globalized which we are still working on doing that's supported by a good level of acquisitions in the areas that we're in.
We are doing portfolio management and trimming out things that we're not great at and investing in areas that we're really good.
That strategy still holds.
Document Technology as a good cash generator good base for us to grow Services from.
Also that strategy still holds.
So I think with – we look at it all the time.
We look at it against our financial goals and against our capabilities.
We can get to 10% to 12% margins for sure.
Government Healthcare is a place that we have to continue to focus and continue to improve.
And hopefully not talk about a whole lot as we go on.
We have to just get this stuff behind us.
New York we think we have a good start.
We have these five contracts et cetera et cetera.
So Government Health is the place that we're spending a lot of time on this call and rightfully so.
But the rest of the mix of the business that we have in the remainder of the strategy is one that absolutely still holds water and still works for us.
And so – and I think it will work for the shareholders over time and that's what we're focused on.
With that I think I can actually transition to a close.
And let me just thank all of you for taking the time to ask questions and listen to the call.
We're working hard to advance our business objectives in 2015 and beyond.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call for today.
If you have any further questioning please contact me or any member of our Investor Relations team.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today's conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the expressed permission of Xerox.
After the presentation there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
Today we reported the second quarter results that are largely in line with our guidance.
During the call we will update you on our strategy provide detail on the second quarter and share the areas where we are intensifying our focus throughout the balance of the year.
Let’s start with our strategy.
Our direction has been consistent.
We are making progress in some areas but we know we can and should do better in other areas.
Our direction is unchanged.
We are making several shifts in the way that we execute against it.
First we have taken steps to create much greater focus in our Services business.
We completed the divestiture of our ITO business enabling a clear focus on the BPO and document outsourcing businesses.
Last Friday we announced a major change in our government healthcare strategy.
We are focused on ensuring the success of the existing health enterprise implementations by limiting new pursuits with this platform.
Second we are modifying our acquisition expectations for the year setting an achievable spend level given our progress to date.
Third the Services leadership team is in place with our last industry leader appointed in April.
Our capabilities are fully staffed and sales resources are in place to market our full portfolio of services.
Collectively these actions result in a sharpened focus on achieving organic improvements in our Services business.
We have also announced changes to our 2015 capital allocation plan.
For the full year we will increase our share repurchase by $300 million to $1.3 billion and we will return $300 million to shareholders in dividends unchanged.
In summary we have the right business strategy we are reprioritizing investments and accelerating our restructuring actions and services to improve revenue and margin.
While we have more work to do we are making decisions and changes that will deliver attractive return to our investors.
Now let’s look at quarter two.
We delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.22 that’s in line with our guidance which excludes the previously announced healthcare software impairment charges of $0.08.
Total revenue was $4.6 billion which is down 3% in constant currency.
We grew Services revenue modestly in constant currency.
It was driven by strong performance in document outsourcing and we delivered on our Services margin guidance.
There are a few highlights in Services that I’d like to share.
We are seeing indications that our new Services go-to-market model is taking root.
Our opportunity pipeline is up sequentially and we are seeing more cross selling and better customer engagement.
We made some important strides in innovation introducing new levels of robotic automation to support our BPO offerings.
For example we recently announced ClearSight Automated Intelligence and ClearSight Case Management.
We also introduced Managed Print Services innovation with the next generation offerings and workflow automation solutions to reinforce our leadership in the industry.
And for internal productivity we are driving transformational change in our own capability operations with the call center of the future program.
Now moving on to Document Technology revenue was down 7% in constant currency which is modestly lower than what we had expected.
Including DO though total document related revenues were down 4% in constant currency.
That’s consistent with the trend that we’ve seen over the last several quarters.
Document Technology margins were in line with expectations.
Here is some highlights on Doc Tech.
We retained our number one position in the equipment sales revenue market share for the twenty second straight quarter.
We were pleased with in store performance in the quarter as most product segments improved especially in the high end of our business.
The new product introductions during the quarter and the launch of the iGen 5 earlier this month will enable us to continue in our leader position.
Finally we used our strong free cash flow $349 million in the quarter to acquire Health Communities Institute and Conestoga Business Solutions and we repurchased shares in support of our dividend program.
Now I’ll turn it over to Kathy to go over some details on the quarter.
I’ll be back later to wrap things up.
Kathy? Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
Our bottom line results were within our guidance for the quarter with Services profit in line Tech profits a little light on modestly softer revenue which was offset by a bit better non-operating expenses.
I will cover the segments in more detail in a minute but first I will run through total company results for the second quarter.
Total revenue in the quarter was down 7% at actual currency and 3% at constant currency.
Growth in services was more than offset by declines in Document Technology which accelerated modestly driven by continued weakness in developing market and higher declines in supply revenue.
The negative currency impact of 4 points on our top line was consistent with our expectations and with first quarter results.
Gross margin of 31.1% was down 100 basis points year-over-year driven by lower technology gross margin as well as a greater mix of services which carries a lower margin.
RD&amp;E was slightly lower year-over-year and SAG in absolute dollar terms was down 6% helped by currency.
However as a percent of revenue SAG was up 30 basis points year-over-year to 19.7% as productivity benefits were more than offset by investments and services.
As a result our second quarter operating margin decreased 160 basis points year-over-year and operating profit declined 22%.
About a quarter of the operating profit decline was driven by currency and developing markets with the remainder of the decline coming from the cross sells that I just discussed.
Moving down the income statement adjusted other net expense was $26 million lower year-over-year driven by lower restructuring cost.
Equity income was $29 million in the quarter down $4 million year-over-year driven by the continued impact of negative translation currency.
Our second quarter adjusted tax rate of 25.8% was in the middle of our guidance and about a point lower year-over-year.
Second quarter adjusted earnings per share was in the middle of our guidance range at $0.22.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations in the quarter was $0.09 and includes the $0.08 impact from the government healthcare software impairment we announced last week which was driven by the strategy change that Ursula already discussed.
As this was a very large non-cash charge we excluded it from our adjusted results to better reflect underlying operating performance.
I will now move on to discuss our operating performance and services.
Services revenue declined 3% and was up 1% in constant currency which was consistent with the first quarter and a bit better than our guidance of roughly flat driven by 4% growth in document outsourcing.
Growth in document outsourcing reflects continued strong Xerox Partner print services growth as well as good equipment revenue growth in enterprise accounts from recent strong signings.
BPO revenue was down 1% reflecting the continued headwind from last year's larger contract losses more than offsetting lower new ramp from softer signings in previous quarters.
We continue to expect EPO growth to improve in the second half as we lap the larger contract losses.
We completed two small acquisitions in the first half and M&amp;A remains a variable factor.
I’ll talk about this more when I cover cash flow and capital allocation.
Total signings in the quarter were up 20% and new business signings were up 9% driven by strong signings and document outsourcing as well as the recently signed New York Medicaid processing contract in BPO.
We expect our go to market investments and move to industry alignment will yield improved new business signings growth as we progress through the year.
Our pipeline continues to build and is up sequentially.
Our renewal rate in the quarter was 82% which was below our target range of 85% to 90% and reflected in part lower renewal opportunities in the quarter.
Year-to-date renewal rate is 87%.
Turning to margin segment margin was 7.5% in the quarter which was down 100 basis points year-over-year and in line with our expectations.
As expected margin was pressured by higher cost related to our health enterprise platform implementation.
As we acknowledge last quarter costs are continuing to run high and we have more work to do to turnaround financial performance in these accounts.
Additionally investments in our new services operating model are not yet being fully offset by enhanced productivity from our operational initiatives which are still ramping up.
Partially offsetting these impacts was continued good margin in document outsourcing albeit lower year-over-year as expected and a year-over-year compare benefit related to the charge last year from the lost Nevada HIX business.
So in summary the quarter was in line for services.
We have made significant changes over the past year to move our services business forward and will be taking additional restructuring actions to ensure our productivity ramps up faster throughout the second half.
I’ll discuss this more when we get to guidance.
I’ll now turn to Document Technology.
Document Technology revenue in the quarter was 7% at constant currency.
As expected currency had a five point negative in point impact with revenue at actual currency down 12%.
As we highlighted last quarter we don't include developing markets in our constant currency calculation but if we had revenue would have been down 6% at constant currency.
So overall revenue trends remained fairly stable.
Looking at the details equipment revenue declines moderated down 6% to constant currency in the second quarter versus down 8% in the first quarter and 10% in the fourth quarter.
The improving trend reflects benefits for recent new product launches especially within high-end where equipment revenue grew in the quarter.
Offsetting the positive equipment trend were higher declines in supplies revenues driven in part by developing market which were pressured by softening economies and currency.
From an activity perspective we saw improvements in growth in mid-range high-end and higher volume entry products.
So overall positive growth in installs across our product segments.
Document Technology margin of 12.1% was down year-over-year but up sequentially and in the middle of our 11% to 13% range for 2015.
Year-over-year drivers included the anticipated higher pension expense and negative mix associated with improved equipment sales at lower margin.
These were partially offset by a retiree health curtailment gain.
So in closing revenues were a little lighter than expected but overall a reasonable quarter for technology with equipment trends and high end performance being positive takeaways.
Turning to cash flow cash flow from operations was $349 million in the quarter above last year's cash flow of $325 million.
This reflects good overall performance despite weaker process as working capital was a lower net use versus last year driven by the following factors.
Accounts receivable was a source of $56 million in the quarter versus the use last year reflecting lower revenues and flat year-over-year DSO.
Accounts payable on accrued compensation was $75 million lower yield this year reflecting timing of supplier payments.
This was partially offset by a little higher inventory due to timing of shipments.
Moving down the cash flow statement investing cash flows were an $831 million source driven by proceeds of $930 million from the sale of ITO business.
This was partially offset by $102 million spent on Capex and $20 million on acquisitions.
Cash flow from financing was a $422 million yield which included $395 million spent on share repurchases and $83 million used for preferred and common stock dividend.
As well it reflects an increase in commercial paper offset by payments of $250 million on senior notes.
Our cash balance at the end of the quarter was $1.6 billion an increase of $769 million since the end of first quarter driven by the proceeds received on June 30 from the ITO divestiture.
So cash flow is strong and continues to attract our expectations.
Now I’ll quickly go over capital structure.
We ended the second quarter with $7.6 billion in debt applying 7 to 1 leverage on customer financing assets.
Our allocated financing debt at the end of the second quarter was $3.9 billion leaving core debt of $3.7 billion.
We managed our core debt to maintain credit metrics consistent with our investment grade rating.
Our capital structure remained fairly stable if we move to the next slide I’ll review where we are in terms of capital allocation.
Through the first half we have repurchased $611 million in shares spent $147 million on common stock dividend and $48 million on acquisitions.
Considering our first-half performance and the opportunities we see for the balance of the year we’re adjusting our capital allocation plan.
On acquisitions we have spent about $50 million year-to-date.
We now expect to spend between $100 million and $400 million for the full year.
The bar is higher as we focus on organic improvements and services for the next few quarters.
We are working to enhance our proactive business development capabilities and recently hired a new leader for business development and M&amp;A.
On share repurchase we are increasing our full-year plan by $300 million to $1.3 billion.
This reflects our view that our shares are attractively priced and a good investment as well as our reduced near-term plans for acquisition.
This leaves approximately $200 million unallocated that we will deploy opportunistically.
On debt we retired our last tranche of debt coming due this year $250 million in June and we continue to expect to end the year at a debt balance of roughly $7.7 billion.
And finally on dividends we continue to expect to spend just over $300 million.
I’ll now turn to a discussion of guidance.
First starting with revenue Document Technology trends are stable as expected improvements in high-end and financing have been offset by ongoing weakness in developing markets from softening economies as well as from currency.
As a result we are planning for Document Technology revenue to be down roughly 6% at constant currency in the second half and for the full year.
Additionally we are spending less on acquisitions than originally planned dampening back Services revenue acceleration.
At the total company level we now anticipate full year revenue at constant currency will be down approximately 2% consistent with prior year and down 1 point from what we last communicated.
Turning to margin we expect services margin will be at the low end of 8.5% to 9% for the year.
With our margin at 7.5% for the first half we need to average about 9.5% in the second half of the year to hit that level.
This requires a step function change given the continued higher health enterprise implementation cost and margins not yet improving in the business as a whole outside of health enterprise.
While our productivity initiatives are beginning to ramp we need to further accelerate that to drive the second half improvement.
In addition to capturing attrition benefit we are planning a restructuring initiative which combined will reduce headcount by approximately 3 000 people.
We expect modest sequential Services margin improvement in the third quarter with the fourth quarter clearly showing greater benefit given the timing of additional workforce actions and accelerating yield from our operating model changes.
Seasonality in document outsourcing also aid sequential improvement in the fourth quarter.
For Document Technology we continue to expect margins between 11% to 13% for the full year in part supported by pension expense coming in lower than originally anticipated.
In the first half restructuring actions were focused on technology.
In contrast our second-half actions will be focused on Services.
As a result we expect relatively low restructuring cost due to natural attrition and relatively low average severance cost in Services.
So in summary we now expect to be at the lower end of $0.95 to $1.01 adjusted earnings per share range.
For the third quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share between $0.22 and $0.24 reflecting normal seasonality and approximately $0.01 of restructuring.
As I indicated earlier operating cash flow was strong in the first half and we still expect to be within $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion range despite the lower earnings reflecting both good working capital performance and lower restructuring cost.
We are committed to getting the needed actions to improve profitability and meet our 2015 earnings and cash flow guidance and we are confident that we have the right plan in place to deliver that and create value for our shareholders.
With that I’ll hand it back to you Ursula.
Thanks Kathy.
And for the second quarter as Kathy said we largely met expectations.
We are committed to delivering our guidance and we are doing everything that we can to overachieve.
In Services we are accelerating cost reduction actions and re-prioritizing investments in the second half to position the business for stronger financial performance while investing in the parts of the business that are critical to drive productivity and future growth.
In Document Technology we are focused on leading in the most attractive segments of the market and on delivering strong financial performance.
So in short it’s all about focus at Xerox.
In addition to leading in the attractive document market we are focused on making portfolio moves that strengthen our business financially and strategically.
We are focused on optimizing our new Services operating model [indiscernible] productivity improvements across the business and we are focused on driving revenue and profit growth in every line of business.
And most importantly we are focused on our people and on our clients.
We remain committed to our business strategy and we are bullish about the markets that we serve and opportunities that lie ahead.
Thank you and now let me turn it over to Leslie.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today is Bob Zapfel Head of our Services business.
Let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today’s presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I would ask participants to limit follow-on and multipart questions so we can get to everyone.
At the end of our Q&amp;A session I’ll turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Karen you can please now open the line for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Tong from Piper Jaffray.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
First question for Kathy in your margin performance guidance for Services that’s been updated can you detail what you are assuming for margin performance outside of government healthcare and what investments into government healthcare you are assuming in the second half? Sure.
If you look at what I discussed in terms of the overall progression in Services margin in the second half it’s very clear that outside of the health enterprise accounts what we are expecting is ramping productivity between the third and the fourth quarter to basically accelerate our margin improvement over the second half.
The other thing that’s really important to recall is that document outsourcing is a meaningful part of our Services business and as a percent of our Services business got larger when we divested the ITO business and that has a natural seasonal pattern in the second half of the year where margins decline in the third quarter and then accelerate sequentially in the fourth quarter.
So those are some of the important puts and takes in terms of the acceleration in the back half of the year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
Thank you very much.
I had a couple of Services questions as well.
First can you talk a bit more about details on the restructuring program and specifically what I’m wondering is what has changed in how you’re looking at the restructuring from last quarter to this quarter? Shannon it’s Bob so a couple of things.
First is as it was mentioned heavily focused on Services rather than Doc Tech where we get kind of visibly more yield for restructuring dollars spent.
And then inside our Services restructuring a combination of what I would call G&amp;A part of – now that we’ve got our arms around managing the set of people and our capabilities organization but a combination of that and then not needing to backfill and being able to take out a higher proportion of our delivery resources as a result of automation investments that we’ve been making during the year and as a result of really having improved the service level quality where we are confident.
We were trying to be a little bit careful to not go too quickly relative to optimizing our cost base without being sure that we could maintain and continue to increase delivery quality.
So those would be the main summary points.
Thank you.
Our next question – I’m sorry.
I was just asking Shannon if she had a follow-up because she mentioned she had a couple of questions.
Shannon your line is open.
Okay.
Thank you.
My only follow-up is just can you talk a little bit about – you started to retrain and realign the sales force on the Services side.
So I’m curious as to what you’re seeing in terms of any benefit from that or how that’s progressing? Yes.
We’ve largely completed the addition of resources in our sales teams and we’ve got good sequential pipeline improvement.
So besides the fact that as it was mentioned before our signings were strong in the quarter we’ve seen our pipeline build out and we are also seeing which was part of the design of the new model going to market by industry we are seeing a visible increase in the number of opportunities where we’re bringing more than one offering to the customer so that it is leveraging Xerox services broadly rather than an isolated offering by itself.
So those would be the primary points.
Thank you.
Karen I think we can move on to the next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Thank you.
I have two as well.
On the M&amp;A pipeline I understand completely that you want to focus on righting the ship.
But if I think about over the last year and the year and a half it seems like Xerox hasn’t been able to hit identify targets associated with M&amp;A in the services area and in contrast it seems like I get an email a week from Accenture about adding deals or completing deals I’m wondering is this more Xerox threshold is it the pipeline is it supply demand and balance what has been the challenge associated with adding services revenue through inorganic means and then I have a follow-up? Okay Keith.
I’m going to start with the way we have historically talked about this we tended to say in up to numbers.
So as an example when we started the year we said M&amp;A up to $900 million and in fact we knew that was kind of quite a big number for us especially relative to what we had typically been doing in the past and so we also said at the same time that we expect that we might role some that over until next year.
You know I'd note in the recent guidance we just gave we are giving a range because it seems like when we said up to if we didn't hit the top end of that number you know people really deemed us for falling short when M&amp;A is a little difficult to call.
If I go to what we need to do to actually get more done I’d say the core thing we need to do is improve our hit rate and the changes that we’re looking to make is to pivot more of our activity to a proactive approach rather than just looking at deals that are being brokered in the market.
That isn't something that happens overnight; I mentioned that we hired a new leader recently in order to head up that business.
And in the meantime we’re also clearly looking to hold the bar a little higher as we focus over the next couple of quarters on really getting our organic improvements in services accelerating.
If I can just add something we are clearly part of four models to sell-out capabilities and broaden our reach particularly internationally we need M&amp;A and so we're not pleased with the fact that we are at the low end of our performance ranges here but I also think it’s a kind of a fortuitous time in the back half of the year to be focused on organic growth we have all of the infrastructure in place we’ve hired the capability leaders we have the sales force full we have the line of business guys all in place we have a good start to operating model and focus here is an important thing.
I don't want anyone to believe that we're walking away from M&amp;A that we're not going to do it but based on the reality of where we are I think we're going to be in this $100 million to $400 million range we're going to spend the last half of the year trying to get that done; and then making sure that we have a foundation a strong foundation a kind of unshakable foundation in organic side of the business.
So I know it is not what we want to end up but it is where we are.
Well thank you.
That’s certainly the right thing to do just try to focus on the execution.
I think totally appropriate.
And my follow-up question though is on the printing side of the business.
It does seem like there are some challenges there and I was wondering if you could add color in particular the supply side seems a bit weaker than I would have anticipated and it seems to be a lingering problem and is that just demand or is there a share or is there how is the technology business seem to be facing incremental challenges particularly on supplies? Thank you.
And so specifically on supplies I’m going to first kind of refer back to my commentary when I talked about developing markets and the fact that we don't adjust currency out right so when we look at these numbers and publish these numbers it has developing markets at actual currency.
If you make that adjustment in tag for supply it actually moves the number by about two points and that will be the case for the last couple of quarters that currencies in developing markets have really been under pressure.
So I think if you look at it that way I would say overall supply ebb and flow a little bit but we don't see any kind of monumental shifts going on here we think the business is pretty stable.
Okay thank you.
One other thing to add Keith if I can is that our supplies mix is a little different than what some of our peers or competitors are as well so smaller portion of our business most of our supplies have bundled in contracts and what we’re talking about here is supplies outside of that and it’s a lower portion by and large of our business that's one.
And the other thing about supplies is that Kathy talked about the currency impact but it is is an extra outside of the currency.
DMO is just a basket of uncertainty there we managed very tightly we try to get inventory levels lined everything has to be managed pretty tightly by us there so we don't get too far over skies.
I think fundamentally we don't see massive changes in the marketplace particularly when you look at currency but we do pay a lot of attention to it and also remember that's a small part of a business than some of our competitors.
Alright fair enough.
I will see the forum many thanks.
Thanks Keith.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva from Citigroup.
Thank you very much.
My question is regarding the turnaround of operating services if I do the math correctly unless I'm mistaking it looks like calendar Q4 will have operating margins 10% or above is my math right and if so can you help us with your confidence and conviction there because it was literally at your Investor Day where Bob literally we asked you does he bluff these numbers he has been at the company now for nine months and looked at the contracts and kicked the tires and toured and he said yes and then we had a takedown as this year has progressed in this area so you help us understand and do you actually have the visibility to kind of put your name behind it all as it has been a challenging area? And then my follow-up question is more or probably for Kathy on the cash flow side varying cash flow held up despite all the stumblings and challenges they actually had this year in the takedown of lots of different things from revenues to margins to M&amp;A now that not coming through.
So are there things that are helping out cash flow one time this year whether it is pension or reversals or something that we should be aware that are not sustainable.
And the reason why as you know numbers have perpetually been coming down lower but cash flow has held up I just want to know if that cash flow is still protected as we look forward long term in the model? Thank you.
So Jim it’s about our start.
So first your math is accurate.
So that for us to deliver the commitments we've made we would expect to drive a two-digit number in the fourth quarter and I guess what I would go back to is we’ve got a broad set of actions that drive that you know if you will hockey stick of improvement they start with the productivity that we talked about earlier and restructuring and taking costs out of our delivery model in cost base it also includes a lower level of losses at our in our health enterprise for portfolio we think we've got sufficient contingencies for the unpredictability that we would see their but that is part of our design model.
I talked about the restructuring beyond delivery.
We've got continued strong profitability in our document outsourcing business and it's got a seasonality that's heavier in the second half in terms of profit yield than the first half and then we are really committed to driving improved revenue dynamics.
So we've been pretty visible all along that we thought that we would be at the lower end of the 2% to 4% revenue range we've run at one for the first half of the year.
So mathematically we'd obviously have to get to 3% in the second half.
We've got headwinds that dissipate relative to Texas and student loans.
We've got New York ramping.
On the other side of it we will have less in the way of a inorganic revenue growth but the combination of factors would get us to improve revenue dynamics in the second half and then that profit increase it's part of for model.
So Kathy do you want to address cash flow or provide more color on.
I’ll go to cash flow.
On cash flow I’d start with as you mentioned our cash flow has really been strong for the first half of the year and we’re very comfortable with where our guidance is.
If you look at some of the charges that we've taken this year especially in health enterprise outside of the recent impairment charge which is obviously non-cash some of those charges are just spread over the contract period where we are doing the health enterprise implementations and so while they have some case impact in the current year the cash impact is really spread over a multiple year period.
As we see declines in our technology business that actually throws off a reduction in working capital until we get a natural benefit there as well as actually just managing our working capital really well.
And then finally the lower segment results are in part offset with a little lower restructuring.
So as we look out to the back half based on where we’ve been tracking year-to-date this year we feel very comfortable about where we are at in meeting our guidance.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Shope from Goldman Sachs.
Yeah.
Thank you.
This is Matt Cabral in for Bill.
So I wanted to better understand the thought process behind the announcement last week to limit health enterprise to the six states you currently have under contract.
Was there anything that changed last quarter to necessitate this change? Are there any additional challenges that you see in ramping those four states that are up and running yet.
There may be one is clear three six once a ago and then related to that just thinking to the longer term revenue target that you guys gave for the Services business how much of that was predicated on extending health enterprise into additional states beyond the six that you currently have? So the decision to – I’m going to have Bob follow-up from with the detail but I’m going to start out with the top level decision.
And the decision that we announced last Friday was one that was a fundamental strategic change and the change was not that we didn’t want to be in health enterprise.
We just want to get what we wanted – what we had underway kind of embedded down and tightly focused.
We have big states New York and California New York just starting California kind of in the middle of its journey and what I ask the Services team to do is to actually focus on those big implementations.
The six states that we have let’s make sure we get those settle down and then we’ll start to pursue to market again in the future if we think it’s actually useful.
So I’m actually then have Bob get into the details of what we see in the states.
Yes.
I would just add that as Ursula shared we are really trying to focus on success in those existing clients and we’ve got the biggest states reference less to really deliver on long term to grow the best way to grow is to have every customer completely satisfied.
So we felt like our delivery capacity you got to remember New York really was just one at this point in the last conference call.
And as we looked at how much capacity we had the work to do in California New York Montana kind of across the remaining portfolio we felt that we would be better served to center our resources there.
There aren’t that many new bids that come up.
It’s not something where all 50 states are rebidding every year.
We have D.C.
has a long shelf life so we felt that we would be better both short term and long term to deliver world-class service and platforms with these accounts and then reassess after that’s done whether we would pursue more opportunities in the marketplace.
In long term revenue dynamics we do understand that we will have some backend pressure – backend meaning out year pressure.
But as Bob said the big thing here is that getting these six states done we found historically that additional business comes if you operate really well.
The quicker we can get them done and the quicker we can get them in line I think that we can actually balance the revenue and the out years.
That would be pressured if we didn’t actually pursue.
So I don’t think that we’re going to have significant issues in the out years due to this decision.
And we’ll have – just to reinforce we will have visible growth year next year as we ramp New York.
So this portfolio of accounts is not going to be a low growth business for us in the short term but it is a longer term question that we think we can manage.
Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
Karen next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Essex from Morgan Stanley.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you for taking the question.
I was wondering if you could start off first of all just revisiting the New York contract and maybe Bob you just mentioned and you’re ramping in the next year obviously we’ve known for quite some time that you had this contract and you’ve been pre-spending so to speak.
May be help me understand or help us understand how you expect the trajectory of ramp for the benefits of that contract to be realized by the company.
And then with this kind of 18 month implementation timeline when did that clock start ticking? Are you well ahead of that or how do we think about hitting those goalpost and leveraging.
You are now I guess fundamentally complete software development program and how you can gain confidence so you can hit that timeframe.
Okay.
Let me start if I can Brian with kind of the delivery plan with New York so there are two major release milepost one is that the first quarter of next year and the second is that the fourth quarter of 2016 those set of deliverables along the way and we are on track across those deliverables.
And the reason or might not the only reason but a reason that will after a good start as you referenced is we invested ahead.
So we took the financial hit little bit in the fourth quarter and the first quarter from investing ahead.
And our initial concept sessions with the state where we confirm designs have been very collaborative all going well.
So at this point we are tracking well and as you may remember New York is basically leveraging the platform that we’ve built for New Hampshire which was just certified by CMS back in June.
So it’s now federally certified as a good platform.
Relative to ramp on the reverence Kathy do you want to cover that? Sure.
We just started the contract in the second quarter and so it’s going to be ramping through the rest of the year.
We should exit the year with New York just under a point in terms of kind of revenue growth for overall services.
Okay great.
And then maybe if I could follow-on the obligatory question on the Florida Toll road contract any update there in terms of progression or what you might expect in terms of the timeline? Yeah.
I’m going to take this one.
We don’t have an update is what we would expect and the one reason why is that we aren’t predicting this.
We have won the bid and we’ve won the bid again.
So we won the bid it’s not a question but we now have an additional protest that’s going to go through its cycle and when it’s done we’ll get the business.
We’re not going to predict when that protest is going to be done because every time we seem to say something it delays.
So it’s going to impact.
But we do think this is the last remaining potential protestee.
So hopefully this is the last part of the cycle.
Okay very helpful.
Thanks Brian.
Karen next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
I have two if I could as well.
I guess the first is there seem to be a revenue component to the second half guide down with BMO and there seems to be Services margin component as well maybe they got down for the second half of the year was a couple of penny.
So the question is what kind of tail should we expect these to have the two dynamics to have as we think about going into ’16.
And to the extent that they do extend into ’16 could you make it up anywhere and if not should we feel when we start to think about ’16.
I realize you’re not going to give guidance.
But if there is sort of like a $0.02 tail $0.02 impact of these things in the second half of the year should we think about having some kind of impact as we move into next year and then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
So the overall revenue dynamics that we are seeing really intact are stable and we have been expecting to see truck improve a little bit as a result of our execution in areas of growth.
So while we are seeing good execution in a place like high end it’s being offset by developing market and not stabilizing but continuing to be a little bit soft both from soft economies in developing markets and from currency.
I mentioned the fact that we don’t adjust out developing markets for constant currency basis and so that kind of heightened the decline for us a little bit.
On Services really the only change there is the fact that we are a little light on M&amp;A and so that will make us a tad bit lighter in terms of just trying to accelerate growth in the back half.
But it’s important to understand the same way that the Services segment margin kind of ramps over the course of the back half.
We have a very similar dynamic going on in revenue in large part because we’re going to start to lack some big contract boxes.
So you recall the loss of the Texas Medicaid contract if we look at first half over second half that’s worse about 2 points to us.
So between that and New York we have quite good I say organic revenue growth dynamics naturally from half to half and throughout the second half of the year.
Ananda I would just say I know that we are guiding to the lower end of the range but I want to make sure that we understand that we are still in the range and we’re going to try to do everything we can to overachieve that.
But it’s important – we are trying to hold ourselves to the commitment in the range that we have in both Services margin and in total EPS.
And then hopefully the new restructuring actions as the new wins that you have in search is going to actually scale up into the cost structure and help the revenue and the margins there as well.
So those are both good tick up.
And I guess as my follow-up just touching based on M&amp;A again as it was touched on earlier in the Q&amp;A spend maybe the third year where you’ve been a little bit on the softer side of the target.
My question is at what point you guys start get a little vary of what’s the longer term top line impact of these to the model and you guys thinking of it in that context yet.
So I think the things that we are doing to I’d say change our approach and execution in M&amp;A or what we need to do that actually get this engine moving for us more consistently and that’s really pivoting from being opportunistic largely a pipeline of brokers deals to M&amp;A and business development activity.
That’s led by our strategic planning and that strategic planning really yielding a team focused on where we have gaps in our portfolio and a proactive M&amp;A activity where we proactively build our pipeline.
That shift in overall approach not a shift in strategy for what we are trying to accomplish through M&amp;A but shift in the execution approach should help us to improve our hit rate.
And if I had to kind of point to one soft under valley in M&amp;A it’s that with a large part of our pipeline coming through broker deals.
Our hit rate is not as high as we would desire it to be.
So we are taking actions in order to change our overall approach so that we can be both very focused right and improve our hit rate.
Okay.
Thank you Karen.
Next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I’ll ask a derivate M&amp;A question.
I’m curious as all these healthcare consolidation especially on the healthcare payers basis does that have any impact to Xerox in your overall healthcare business.
We are fortunate that we are providers to all of the players that are participating in the consolidation dynamics and my business experience is if you’ve got the acquiree as a client that’s not a good place to be.
When you have both the acquirer and the acquiree you’re better positioned.
So I would expect and we don’t do the exact same work with each side if you will and some of the big visibly announced planned mergers.
So I think for us there is always the chance that you’re going to get – you’re going to be part of the synergy savings play and help those lead customers achieve their synergy savings.
We think we were well positioned to participate in that because we are on both sides of visible transactions.
We have very strong client referenceability and we tend to see the clients wanting to consolidate and leverage providers where they would be more likely even use us more broadly.
Got it.
Makes sense Bob.
Thank you.
Can I ask? Certainly one more question.
I’m sorry just a quick one.
Just on the signings thanks for letting me sneak one more in just on the services signings front I caught the Florida comment obviously New York coming in I’m curious any other larger deals that could be building up in the pipeline because systematically it sounds like bigger deals are coming back for the sector including within BPO I’m curious if you are seeing that as well? Thank you I’ll drop off.
We’re not really seeing an increase in what I would call the big multi or a $100 million or $100 million plus deals but what we are seeing is we are seeing visible improvement in our pipeline including the progression so not just the – you know how many deals do we have to pursue but where are they in the sales stage that we need to then leverage to drive improved signings in the second half of the year.
That’s our plan.
Thank you.
Next question Karen.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse.
Hi both of my questions have been asked and maybe I missed...
Can you speak up a little bit Kulbinder.
Most of my questions have been asked I just wanted to ask have you given a number for the restructuring amount this year and what the normal level of restructuring going forward the company and then also what tax ratio you would be assuming? Thanks.
So I think I am going to try and repeat the question just because I’m not positive that I heard you was your first question just asking about the level of restructuring generally? Correct.
Yes.
So we have tended to do I will call it about $0.02 a quarter or between $0.01 and $0.02 a quarter that ebbs and flows in different quarters as we look at and assess our business.
We specifically guided to doing about $0.01 in the third quarter you know and we will assess the fourth quarter as we get closer but we do have an expectation that in the back half of the year generally our restructuring is going to be a little bit lighter.
And I think your second question was overall kind of tax rate.
We haven’t changed our tax rate guidance.
We expect to be between 25% and 27%.
Thank you.
I think we have time just for one last question.
Thank you.
Our final question for today comes from the line of Jamie Friedman from Susquehanna.
Hi thanks for sneaking me in lastly.
There is a reference in the press release and sort of deep down there but with regard to the new Hampshire contract and it states in there that Medicaid I would just paraphrase them Medicaid certified your retroactively to the April 2013 implementation date I guess more generally I was just – what the status of New Hampshire is I understand it is launched and live but what does that certification mean and is there any financial implication to the fact that it’s retroactive? Yes.
There really aren’t financial implications to the retro activity but the certification really means for the other states that as they look at and work with us they [indiscernible] that platform not just that we are selling with its features but that the feds and CMS agree that that’s you know designed to meet the federal targets.
Very good thing.
A very good thing.
That sounds like a positive.
Thank you.
Great.
Thanks Jamie.
So that’s all the time we have for questions today.
So let’s wrap up.
So as I said earlier the second quarter was in-line but we expect more and we are looking to deliver more.
We are making choices that increase our short-term performance while retaining the ability to achieve our long-term goals.
We are focused on delivering better results and improving the performance of our business and I thank you all for joining us on the call.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have any further questions please contact me or any member of our investor relations team.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Kathy Mikells Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today’s conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the expressed permission of Xerox.
After the presentation there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thanks for joining our call.
Today we reported our third quarter results and provided an update on the fourth quarter and full year outlook.
During this call we will update you on our strategy provide details on our third quarter results and share the actions that we are taking to improve our business.
So let me begin with a look at our priorities.
In Services our goal is to lead an attractive segment of the business services market and throughout the year we have taken steps to strengthen this business including acquisitions to build our commercial healthcare offerings and the divestiture of ITO.
As we announced two weeks ago we are also taking action to improve our future financial performance and significantly reduce the volatility of our results with the update to our government healthcare business strategy.
With these strategy changes to our government healthcare business we are more clearly focused on the most profitable segments of our Services business.
In Document Technology our efforts are focused on continuing to lead the market.
We maintained our number one market share position in equipment sales revenue for the 23rd straight quarter closing in on 6 years a solid record of leadership and we are seeing good demand from small and midsized businesses an important growth segment through Global Imaging Systems and with the growth of our partner print solutions sold through our channels.
Also in the third quarter we launched our new communication platform Work Can Work Better and we are pleased with the reactions so far.
Our new advertising and digital content highlight how we are enabling businesses and governments to achieve better results by helping them work better.
For our shareholders we have returned more than 50% of our free cash flow to them over the last four years and we are on track to do even more this year.
Through September we completed $1.3 billion in share repurchases achieving our full year expectations.
Although we have already taken steps to accelerate cost reductions and prioritize investments to drive improved revenue productivity and margins we announced today that the Xerox Board of Directors have authorized a comprehensive review of structural options for the company’s business portfolio and capital allocation with the goal of enhancing shareholder value.
Now let’s look at the third quarter performance.
During the third quarter we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.24 that’s in line with our guidance which excludes $0.05 related to the amortization of intangibles and $0.23 from the previously announced health enterprise charge.
Because the circumstances in health enterprise are unique I will speak to our adjusted results in the quarter which better reflects our underlying operating performance.
Total adjusted revenue was $4.4 billion down 4% in constant currency.
On an adjusted basis Services revenue was consistent with the same period last year and we delivered sequential improvement in our Services margin.
Document outsourcing continues to perform well overall and BPO was down 1% which was consistent with previous quarters.
There are a few highlights in Services that I would like to share.
Acquisitions remain a key aspect of our portfolio management strategy.
And in the third quarter we acquired RSA Medical and iPas expanding our suite of healthcare related offerings.
Our new go-to-market teams are establishing leadership roles in their industries.
As examples our retail team convened top clients and thought leaders at Xerox Retail Industry Summit and Xerox Analytics were demonstrated at the grand opening of MCV the University of Michigan’s one-of-a-kind test site for connected and automated vehicles and a number of services offerings received external recognition.
We retained the top position in Quocirca’s managed print services market landscape report for the sixth consecutive year.
And for the third year running Everest Group rated Xerox as a leading service provider for contact center outsourcing BPO.
Now moving on to Document Technology Document Technology revenue was down 9% in constant currency which is lower than we had expected and mostly was driven by increased pressures in developing markets.
Excluding the impact of the developing markets the revenue trends in Document Technology remains stable.
Document Technology margin of 12.8% was strong and within our guidance range of 11% to 13%.
Some additional Doc Tech highlights we are seeing the benefit of recent product launches with strong demand for our new entry production color devices and we showcased the best of team Xerox at Graph Expo the largest U.S.
tradeshow for the graphic communications market including two new Xerox digital production color presses the Xerox iGen 5 press and the Xerox Rialto 900 inkjet press.
We also rolled out FreeFlow core cloud which is the latest release in our leading Workflow Automation portfolio.
In total the company generated operating cash flow of $271 million and we returned $774 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Then now I will turn it over to Kathy to provide more details on the quarter.
I will be back later to share fourth quarter guidance and wrap up.
Kathy? Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
I will start with an overview of our financial performance before moving into a more detailed discussion of the segment.
As announced two weeks ago this quarter we reported a pre-tax charge of $389 million or $241 million after tax reflecting that we no longer expect to fully complete the health enterprise platform projects in California and in Montana.
This decision will improve Xerox’s future financial performance as these implementations were generating losses and will remove an element of risk and volatility in the business.
Accordingly I will provide results and growth rates adjusting for the charge to give better visibility to the underlying business performance in the quarter.
Our bottom line results were within our third quarter guidance with revenues a bit softer and profitability generally in line with our expectations.
Total revenue in the quarter was down 7% at actual currency and 4% at constant currency.
Services was flat at constant currency as growth in document outsourcing offset a 1% decline in BPO.
Document Technology declined 9% at constant currency and was impacted by increasing weakness in developing markets.
Gross margin of 30.9% was down 130 basis points year-over-year driven by a lower technology equipment gross margin as well as the greater mix of services which carries the lower margin.
RD&amp;E was slightly lower year-over-year.
SAG in absolute dollars was down 9%.
SAG as a percent of revenue was better by 40 basis points helped by currency and on our ongoing productivity initiatives as well as lower compensation and benefit expense.
Our third quarter operating margin of 8.7% decreased 90 basis points year-over-year and operating profit declined 16%.
Over 40% of the operating profit decline was driven by currency and developing markets.
Moving down the income statement adjusted other net expense was $8 million lower year-over-year driven by lower restructuring costs.
Equity income was $40 million in the quarter down $4 million year-over-year driven in part by the continued impact of negative translation currency.
Our third quarter adjusted tax rate of 24.6% was at the low end of our guidance range of 25% to 27%.
Our third quarter adjusted EPS was at the top of our guidance range at $0.24.
I will now move on to discuss our operational performance in Services.
Services revenue declined 3% and was flat at constant currency.
BPO was down 1% consistent with the second quarter reflecting the headwind from last year’s larger contract losses lower inorganic contribution as well as lower new contract ramp from softer signings in previous quarters.
Good growth continues in document outsourcing up 3% driven by strong Xerox Partner print services growth as well as good equipment revenue growth in enterprise accounts from recent strong signings.
Total signings in the quarter were down 7% but are up 5% on a trailing 12-month basis.
New business signings were down 9% year-over-year as growth in document outsourcing was more than offset by declines in BPO.
Our go-to-market investments and move to industry business groups are beginning to result in good growth and shorter sales cycle offerings such as customer care but we have yet to see a pickup in higher value longer sales cycle offerings.
Our renewal rate in the quarter was 89% which was at the high end of our target range of the 85% to 90% and reflects continued overall good customer retention.
Turning to margin segment margin was 8.1% in line with our expectations for sequential improvement from 7.5% in the second quarter.
Margin was down 100 basis points year-over-year reflecting investments in resources and in our new Services operating model negative business mix within BPO as well as higher overhead as we work to lean out cost following the ITO divestiture.
We continue to expect productivity from operational initiatives and our recent restructuring to yield increasing benefits in the fourth quarter.
I will now turn to Document Technology.
Document Technology revenue in the quarter was down 9% at constant currency.
Developing market weakness including negative currency accelerated in the third quarter contributing more than one-third of the constant currency revenue decline.
Also contributing to the decline in the third quarter was high end revenue.
After good equipment growth in the second quarter high end was weaker in the third quarter reflecting in part timing of product launches including our recently announced iGen 5 which had helped us drive improvement in the fourth quarter.
From a total printing perspective combining Document Technology with document outsourcing revenue has been fairly stable down 5% in the third quarter and down 4% year-to-date at constant currency.
Turning to activity we saw a strong growth in entry A4 color driven by new products relatively stable results in mid-range but weaker installs and mix of products in high end.
Document Technology margin of 12.8% was down year-over-year but within our full year guidance of 11% to 13%.
Year-over-year drivers include negative equipment mix given better A4 results and the anticipated higher pension expense partially offset by lower compensation and benefit expense.
We continued to actively manage our cost base to ensure alignment to revenue trends.
So in closing Doc Tech revenues were slightly lower than expected but profitability remained strong.
Turning now to cash cash flow from operations was $271 million in the quarter which was lower than prior year cash flow of $595 million.
The decline year-over-year reflects lower profits in Document Technology with the two largest drivers being continued negative currency impact and developing market’s weakness lower profits in Services driven by margin decline as well as the expected loss of cash flow from the ITO business following the divestiture.
Additionally working capital was the use of cash due to timing of vendor payments as well as lower demand and timing of shipments impacting inventory.
The health enterprise charge in the third quarter had a negligible impact on cash in the period and we anticipate the approximate $225 million of cash outflows will be spread over time.
Moving down the cash flow statement investing cash flows were $206 million use driven by $65 million spent on CapEx and $153 million on acquisition.
Cash flow from financing was an $888 million used which included $691 million spent on share repurchases and $90 million used for preferred and common stock dividend.
And our cash balance at the end of the quarter was just over $800 million.
So cash flow in the third quarter was impacted by lower operating profit as well as working capital timing.
Now I will review our capital structure.
We ended the third quarter with $7.6 billion in debt.
Applying seven to one leverage on customer financing assets our allocated financing debt at the end of the third quarter was $3.9 billion leaving core debt of $3.7 billion.
In the fourth quarter we are now anticipating an additional $200 million debt reduction which will bring our year end debt level to approximately $7.4 billion a $350 million debt reduction for the year.
This reduction will help to offset the impact to our credit metrics from lower earnings and the reduction in our financing assets.
Overall we continue to manage our capital structure to maintain credit metrics consistent with our investment grade rating.
I will now hand it back to Ursula to discuss capital allocation and guidance.
With less than a quarter left in the year we can be more definitive on our remaining uses of capital.
As Kathy just mentioned we have spent about $200 million on acquisitions year-to-date and we don’t anticipate closing any large acquisitions before year end.
We now expect to deploy an additional $200 million of capital towards debt reduction.
We will spend $300 million on dividends.
And lastly on share repurchase we receive – we reached our full year target of $1.3 billion in quarter three this represents 115 million share reduction – reduction in shares year-to-date and a 10% reduction of our share count this year.
I will now discuss guidance.
Starting with revenue we expect improvement in the four quarter but considering current trends we now expect full year revenue will be down approximately 3% at a constant currency in line with year-to-date results with Services flat to up 1% and Document Technology down 6% to 7%.
From a margin perspective in Doc Tech we expect continued strong margins with quarter four and full year margins in the middle of our full year range of 11% to 13%.
In Services we anticipate sequential improvement and for margins to be approximately 9% in quarter four.
So we are making progress in Services but we do not expect to get to 8.5% margin for the full year.
And for earnings we expect quarter four adjusted EPS to be between $0.28 to $0.30 and for the full year we anticipate being at the low end of our previously guided range of $0.95 to $1.01.
Lastly we expect free cash flow in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion with modestly lower operating cash flow of between $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion and CapEx that is now also expected to be lower.
So in summary for the third quarter we achieved adjusted earnings in line with our guidance but we will – we have come through the 9-month point and we are not satisfied with our performance.
We are sharpening our focus on execution across the enterprise.
We continue to lead an aggressive agenda to strengthen our offering portfolio and target segments where we are best positioned to compete and differentiate.
And across both services and technology we are prioritizing investments taking actions to improve revenue and margin and managing cost in Doc Tech to maintain our profitability.
And as previously mentioned we are reviewing structural options for the company’s business portfolio on capital allocation with the goal of enhancing shareholder value.
As we undertake this activity we are focused on the execution of our strategy and remaining fully committed to our customers partners suppliers and employees and to delivering strong financial results.
Finally before we go to Q&amp;A as you know this is Kathy Mikells last earnings calls.
I would like to thank Kathy for her financial leadership and contributions to Xerox during her time with us.
Leslie Varon will be stepping in as the interim CFO a position that she has held previously.
Leslie has deep experience and great connections throughout the business so I know we won’t miss a beat on – with this transition.
With that let me turn it over to Jennifer.
Thanks Ursula.
Joining Ursula and Kathy today is Bob Zapfel Head of our Services business as well as Jeff Jacobson Head of Technology.
Also let me point out that we have supplemental slides at the end of our deck.
They provide more financial detail to support today’s presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I would ask participants to limit follow-ons and multi-part questions so that we can get to everyone.
At the end of our Q&amp;A session I will turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
Thank you very much.
Ursula can you talk a bit – your Services and Doc Tech business have been under pressure for some time.
So I am curious as to what specifically is behind the decision to look at structural options.
And as Chairman and CEO can you talk a bit about what types of actions you would say would constitute a structural option? Thank you Shannon for the question.
The Board and the management we look at the business portfolio at the company strategy on a continuous basis.
We consider a range of opportunities regarding new business and the operations and it’s always focused on increasing shareholder value.
So this type of activity for example led us to look at ITO and to divest of that and to take a fundamental change in our government healthcare strategy particularly around health enterprise.
So the structural options that we are looking at is both portfolio and capital allocation options and it’s at an early stage.
So I really can’t get into more details about that – about what is happening because we haven’t really progressed it that far.
And I guess what made the change like in your minds looking at how the business is – what made it happen or be announced at this quarter versus prior? Is there anything significant that changed or how did this sort of come about? Yes I think that the Board decided – and I am a member of the Board obviously the Chairman of the Board we decided to make it public.
We decided as a group to make it public.
I think that the review process though is an important thing to keep in mind.
It is a fairly broad-based review.
It is not – one of the things that we have not – we are not currently considering is the sale of the company but all other options are – will be looked at as we progress through this review.
We are not going to actually speak a lot about timing of it.
We are not going to make a lot more public statements about it.
So I understand that there is a lot of questions but we have to kind of go through the process and we have to go through the process before we can say anything more.
Okay thank you.
And then just one other question you have taken down 2015 cash flow guidance a bit given some of the pressures in emerging markets in that how are you thinking about 2016 as we look forward? Sort of just maybe even if you can’t give us specific high level puts and takes on how we should think about cash flow? Let me start with the top line.
Let me start with revenue and then I will turn it over to Kathy and myself to talk about cash flow.
I think that we will see continued pressure in developing markets.
I don’t expect to see any turnaround there and maybe even a little bit more headwind than we have seen so far there.
Doc Tech margins we expect them to remain strong.
We are going to do a whole review of what’s happening in 2016 at our fourth quarter earnings call in January.
So these are just high level comments.
Why don’t you go into cash? Sure.
And so other things I would just point to currency has been a huge headwind for the company this year.
If we had to call currency today which by the way we don’t but if we had to call it today we would call it looking fairly neutral in 2016.
Another driver overall of cash flow is pension and our approach there really hasn’t changed.
So I wouldn’t expect any kind of big changes year-over-year in terms of what we are trying to do in pension.
And then obviously one of the big things that we have got to continue to execute on is just managing working capital.
That was a particular headwind for us in this quarter and something that we would expect actually we would improve on as we get through our fourth quarter and something we will be very mindful of as we look forward to 2016.
And then the last thing I would mention Shannon is we sold these pieces of our financing portfolio in 2012 and 2013.
The impact of that diminishes over time.
And so that gives us a little bit of a natural uplift in ‘16.
One last point on the health enterprise charges that we took for ‘16 – actually for the fourth quarter and ‘16 we will have a little bit of headwind in revenue the first half of ‘16.
It will reduce our volatility which is one of the things that we really suffered from in 2015.
So that’s the good news there and we should be able to see some improved profitability as these contracts were at a loss.
That’s the other thing we can see in ‘16.
Thanks Shannon.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of George Tong from Piper Jaffray.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First off Kathy we wish you well in your new endeavors.
Thanks very much.
I guess Ursula can you discuss whether you see strategic value in having the services business together with the Document Technology business? The answer is that our – my position on that hasn’t changed to date.
And that’s the strategy that we are executing on which is yes we do see to-date strategic value in having these two businesses together.
As you go through the review that’s one of the things that we will validate.
Got it.
And Bob in the government healthcare space can you give us an update on New Hampshire Alaska North Dakota and New York and what implementation milestones and costs might be coming up? Sure.
So the first three New Hampshire Alaska and now North Dakota are all live.
We went live in North Dakota two weeks ago early October.
So they are in operate mode so we would not expect them to have new development expenses where we have had the unpredictability that been an issue in both California and Montana has been on new system build as opposed to operate.
In New York we are building the new system.
As you will remember the big difference with New York was it was bid after the move to – after the move to the system.
We are already implemented in New Hampshire.
So we were not building from scratch.
They were buying something that the health enterprise platform that we had built and we are still in the front end of that development but optimistic that we will be able to drive that within the cost that we have modeled.
Great thank you.
Thanks George.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tien-tsin Huang from JPMorgan.
Great thank you.
Kathy I also want to wish you the best in the next gig.
I just want to I guess Ursula just obviously lots going on with the CFO transition and then you mentioned the review in the capital allocation and portfolio retrenching in government as well.
I think you said you don’t have a timetable but I am curious how do you expect to – I guess address and update us on some of these big items? Yes I think that any normal operational item we will update you on quarter calls like we generally do.
As far as the portfolio – business portfolio and capital allocation review that we don’t intend to give updates to the process.
So we are not even sure.
We are not even assuring that there will be any outcome of that process that’s something that will make public.
So I think what we have to do is when we are ready to speak to you about it if and when we will speak you about it business update normal business and operational updates you will get – you get through interactions with us on a normal basis.
And then timetable on the CFO transitioning yes? As far as the CFO transition goes it’s always unfortunate to see a CFO leave particularly someone with the quality and caliber of Kathy.
So we are wishing her well as you guys do but we are disappointed in that transition.
The good news is that I have a compatriot who has been with me for – has been with me in this company for 30 years or more who has done this acting CFO thing once before.
The community knows her outside the company.
The community knows her and loves her inside the company.
So I don’t expect miss a beat at all.
Great.
Thanks Tien-tsin.
Next question please.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Keith Bachman from Bank of Montreal.
Hi.
I also want to start at the strategic level.
If I think back about what’s happened this year the buyback has been call it over $1.3 billion and the M&amp;A has been a couple of $100 million.
And so the portfolio has actually decreased or it really hasn’t increased through M&amp;A and the company has been buying back aggressively on stock.
And I am just wondering how you are thinking about that as you look forward.
In other words the stock really hasn’t done much.
It’s down a little bit this year down actually a decent amount yet you have been buying back and really haven’t added to the Services portfolio.
I am not suggesting that you go out and buy aggressively at any price but the capital allocation strategy combined with weak markets really hasn’t seem to create value.
And I am just wondering how you are positioning that as part of your strategic decision making process here as you look out over the next couple of months? Yes.
I think that for the remainder of this year as I said in my remarks we don’t expect to actually to complete any significant M&amp;A at all.
So I think where we are on M&amp;A is where we are and we have already met – reached the share repurchase hurdle that we had set for the full year.
So I think that both share repurchase and acquisitions M&amp;As kind of done for the year or maybe a little bit more.
Yes.
I am thinking about more over the next 6 months to 12 months? Yes.
So let me go forward I just wanted state that.
Thank you Keith.
On a go forward basis our strategy remains to return at least 50% of our available cash to shareholders and we will continue to do that through share repurchase and through dividends in 2016 as the current plans.
We will update you more on that in the fourth quarter earnings in January.
And as far as M&amp;A it’s one of the integral pieces of the expansion of our Services business.
And so we will continue to look for accretive tuck-in acquisitions in Services particularly around the areas where we see differentiation and strength in transportation and commercial healthcare these areas.
So we will continue to look for M&amp;A in 2016 and we will continue our return to shareholders strategy in 2016.
If anything changes from that we will update you when appropriate.
Okay.
If I could just sneak in a follow-up then as you think about strategic alternatives on the printing side of the business is there more that could be done and more could have many definitions but associated with your partner in Japan Fuji to leverage that relationship? I think that as we look at structural options for the company’s business portfolio and capital allocation we will look at all available levers there.
I am sure the company will do that – the Board will do that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Best of luck.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Essex from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning and thank you for taking the question.
I was wondering if I could pose a question to Bob.
I guess given the recent announcement that you are deciding to shorten the contract implementation dates for both California Montana I was wondering if you could maybe highlight a little bit what to expect on the margin front and how much shorter those contracts could potentially be.
And I guess what I am getting at is realizing that you have an operational overhang as you are implementing those contracts might we see a little bit better margins sooner and what might that timeframe be once those contract implementation processes end? Yes.
Look if I can all start first by explaining kind of where we are in both California and Montana and then I will try to be on point with the question.
So really in both states we and they this was a mutual process looked ahead and said given everything that it changed in terms of what they would want and where we were on the development that there was still a long way to go and it was better to kind of call inaudible [ph] than continue to kind of develop the systems.
So what – and they and we were with those and for us to stay in a substantive long-term role as a fiscal agent operator which is the primary component of our operating revenue in both states.
Now what that will mean to us going forward is we will have as Ursula briefly mentioned we will have some revenue pressure.
It’s about a point on the Services segment revenue dynamics for the next three quarters.
And it was also roughly a point – not quite but roughly a point last quarter.
So that’s a little bit of downside.
The upside is that we had been very unpredictable.
As you know our Services margins have not been – we have not been as consistent as we need to be because we have been recognizing more costs to development would kind of hit the period I&amp;E because of percentage of completion accounting.
So because of the change that we have made with them we expect to take that unpredictability out of our model.
And we should have year-to-year improvements in 2016 because we were losing money but we are not already laying out next year’s segment model until the January earnings call.
So sorry about the long answer but hopefully that’s… Okay.
No that’s very helpful.
And so if I were to take California and Montana contracts is there any way to outline the revised timeline for those contracts it sounds like California ending after stage two is that relatively close.
And then Montana I know that was a pretty far away completion timeframe? Both of them from a – again separate the new system development from the ongoing operations.
The ongoing operations we expect to have for an extended period.
The new system development in both cases will be inside 12 months and maybe inside a much shorter period of time.
Right.
And the financial implications of that Brian is that have been comprehended in the charge that we took in a couple of weeks ago.
So we are – we have kind of captured towards the best of our ability and knowledge of the financials including the balance sheet impacts.
We did that in – a couple of weeks ago.
And we will then implement that – the end of that those development activities with the states in the next couple of quarters or so.
Yes.
Right.
Thanks Brian.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim Suva from Citigroup.
Thanks very much.
I have two questions and I will just mention them at the same time.
So first of all on the announcement you made about the Board of Directors of authorizing review can you confirm that it’s just your Board of Directors internal doing it or did you hire somebody external or plan to external.
And the reason why I ask this isn’t the Board of Directors supposed to always review the company’s business and capital allocation.
And so if it’s internal you kind of really wonder what type of meaning this information is.
Second question is – the follow-up is during this review process does your stock buyback or capital allocation you put on hold until you get the conclusion of it? Thank you very much.
As far as your first statement about the Board’s interaction with strategy development etcetera etcetera.
You are correct that this is a continuous activity with the Board.
This is – they have talked – we have talked about it all the time with the Board our strategy and as well as our operations.
This – we have told you that what we are doing here is we are looking at structural options for the business portfolio and capital allocation is something that they always do.
We have just decided to announce this to you this time and we are not disclosing any advisors with you if we have advisors of who they are.
Great.
Thanks Jim.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ananda Baruah from Brean Capital.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking the question and Kathy good luck in your future endeavors.
I guess really I have a question and a quick follow-up.
Really for Ursula and Bob I guess in the context of how you talked about your capital allocation going forward but given also the new context about looking at strategic options.
Philosophically how do guys think about doing not tuck-ins but larger Services deals.
And it sounds like you are going to have the $700 million left over after capital allocation of generative cash annually to do deals I don’t know that that could get you without levering up something significant.
But clearly there is some sort of intent behind making this announcement the way that you guys have announced it.
So I’d love to just get your thoughts on philosophically your view on making the larger services deals.
And then really I would love to get your broader take on did you really what you think that actually is necessary given the fragmented nature for the BPO market I will actually just leave it there.
That will be my question.
Thanks.
Okay great.
By the way I didn’t answer the second part of Jim’s question which is basically the first part of your question so sorry Jim and Ananda I will capture that.
Our capital for this year we have essentially completed our share repurchase activities.
We have – as I said earlier and we are still active in the market in M&amp;A but we have a pipeline and that pipeline doesn’t lead to anything significant for the remainder of this year.
So from a capital allocation on those two items I think that we are really pretty much settled.
CapEx we talked about the fact that it’s coming in a little bit lighter that will help us – we are focused on remaining investment grade that’s one of the things that you know that we think that we need for both our services and tech business and we will continue to make sure that we manage our capital to assure that we fall inside there.
That’s one.
Second is the fragmented nature of the services market and our therefore M&amp;A activities for the future.
I mean one of the things that we will continue to need to do in the services business is to consolidate some of this fragmentation particularly in areas that we have strength and I would suspect – I would plan to and you should expect that we will continue to do that type of activity as we go forward in the business as usual kind of a manner.
I didn’t quite get to the $700 million that you got to because we haven’t quite done 2016 yet which I think is what you were looking towards when you were making those numbers those projections Ananda but as I said earlier I don’t think that we see in the business as usual a lot of change in returning value to shareholders to an M&amp;A structure that continues to strengthen our services business and to a debt structure that allows us to remain capital investment grade.
So those are the three kind of tenants that we are sitting on right now and that’s why I intend to come out as well.
We will see if there is anything that changes as we go forward.
We will tell you about it but it won’t be before January – the January call.
I hope I answered everything that you had.
It was kind of a long question.
I hope I got all of it.
It was.
But that was very helpful Ursula.
I guess just one quick follow-up is do you think you can accomplish the kind of I guess consolidation in those key BPO areas that you want to continuing with sort of the small tuck-in approach as opposed to stepping into doing some larger deals and getting some bigger scales? That will be it.
Thanks.
Yes I think – it’s something that – it’s a great question Ananda and it’s one that it’s going to be hard to answer not for any reason except that we have been trying to do the small tuck-ins and we find some good ones and they come when they come.
We compete for them and we win some.
You saw iPas and RSA this last quarter and we will continue to try to push on that area.
We still have the same disciplined approach.
We have a great kind of re-op in that approach with the hiring of a great executive who is kind of M&amp;A expert.
So we will continue to look at that type of M&amp;A for sure.
And then when we look in that type of M&amp;A if we find something that’s even more exciting we are not going to close our eyes to it but that’s not – we are not looking for massive companies to buy.
We are trying to actually stay in the ranges that we have been talking about little bit bigger than small but definitely smaller than large.
And trying to stay where we are really looking at the places where we think we are advantaged so that we are not looking broadly across the whole BPO portfolio.
But on a select set of areas where we think we can even further differentiate the firm for our clients.
One of the areas that we didn’t get into at all but I think it’s good to bring up now is that we are heavily concentrated.
We have a heavy concentration and strength in customer care and in call center operations.
And we have a problem right now with the business mix.
It’s one of the challenges that we had in the third quarter and that we are working hard to try to overcome as we go forward.
As we mix more towards customer care it’s a lower margin business.
We are trying to mix up towards more – towards higher margin more innovative solutions while we try to actually innovate in customer care.
So the reason why I bring it up is our M&amp;A strategy is going to be towards these types of areas where the margins are stronger where we don’t continue to – where we want to stay leader in our customer care.
We don’t want to walk away from that business.
But we just are not selling enough of the higher margin businesses – business areas and that’s one of the things that we have to fix and we haven’t quite cracked that nut yet.
So we are going to continue to acquire in those areas so that we can actually move away from the more commodity-based customer care implementations.
Thanks Ananda.
Operator I think we have time for one last question.
Thank you.
And our final question for today comes from the line of Kulbinder Garcha from Credit Suisse.
Mr.
Garcha your line is open.
Could you check your mute button please? He has not responded.
Alright.
So that’s it.
We will wrap up.
Thanks for your interest.
Ursula anything more to wrap up.
Yes.
I just want to close with a thank you for listening.
And while the third quarter adjusted earnings were in line with our expectations we know that we have a lot of work to do.
I talked about some of the areas mix is one.
We have to make sure we manage our cash well for the remainder of the year and we will be focused on that.
So thank you for joining our call today.
Thanks Ursula.
That concludes our call today.
If you have further questions please contact me or any member of our Investor Relations team.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Xerox Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call hosted by Ursula Burns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
She is joined by Leslie Varon Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer.
During this call Xerox executives will refer to slides that are available on the web at www.xerox.com/investor.
At the request of Xerox Corporation today’s conference call is being recorded.
Other recording and/or rebroadcasting of this call are prohibited without the expressed permission of Xerox.
[Operator Instructions] During this conference call Xerox executives will make comments that contain forward-looking statements which by their nature address matters that are in the future and are uncertain.
Actual future financial results may be materially different than those expressed herein.
At this time I would like to turn the meeting over to Ms.
Burns.
Ms.
Burns you may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Today we are announcing significant actions that will define the next chapter of our company.
We will spend much of the call today discussing our plans to separate into two strong independent market-leading companies.
We will also discuss the multiyear strategic transformation program announced today.
And of course we will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results and 2016 guidance.
Let me begin with our plan to dramatically change the way that we generate shareholder value.
Today we announced that the comprehensive structural review begun in October has been completed.
The review has been a top priority for our Board of Directors and the executive team.
We engaged outside advisers including independent advisers to the Board in this process.
It was a robust assessment of options for the company’s portfolio and capital allocation that would best position the company to maximize shareholder value.
It became clear through this analysis that the benefits of separation outweighed the benefits of maintaining the current structure.
The Board unanimously agreed that the optimal path forward for Xerox is to become two market-leading focused publicly traded companies.
We are confident this is the highest value creating opportunity for our shareholders for our clients and employees.
These companies will both be significant Fortune 500 scale companies and leaders in their markets one comprising our Business Process Outsourcing business; the other our Document Technology and Document Outsourcing businesses.
Document Technology with 2015 revenue of $11 billion will continue to lead the document management and document outsourcing market leveraging its superior technology solutions and innovation capabilities.
BPO with 2015 revenue of $7 billion and already a leader in the growing market will continue to pursue growth opportunities by capitalizing on its deep industry expertise market-leading automation solutions and track record of global delivery excellence.
I will discuss unique strengths top line financial profiles and growth opportunities of the two companies in more detail shortly.
But first let me talk about the compelling rationale that exists behind the decision to separate these companies.
We have two strong businesses each facing different market and client realities.
Document Technology faces modest secular declines in its markets while BPO participates in the growing but rapidly evolving market.
The businesses have distinct operating models and cash flow characteristics and very different growth drivers and competition.
The Document Technology business is one in which operational discipline and the commitment to transformative productivity is vital to sustaining quality and managing cost in an increasingly interconnected digital world.
Doing that right creates strong profitability and cash flow that can be returned to shareholders and invested in selected growth opportunities.
BPO on the other hand needs to be highly adaptive able to innovate and adopt technology quickly and shift its portfolio to address the fast changing needs of its clients.
We are seeing how new technologies like Software-as-a-Service and robotic process automation are changing the way that services are delivered.
Additionally clients are requiring deep analytics for operational insight and greater personalization.
The BPO market is growing at a greater than 5% rate and the majority of the revenue streams are recurring.
Based on this we concluded that these businesses will be stronger and able to create more value for shareholders clients and employees as independent companies.
We are creating two companies that will be market leaders benefiting from enhanced strategic and operational focus distinct and clear financial profiles and capital allocation policies can simplify organization structures.
As standalone companies they will have compelling investment cases and be better positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities and expand margins and market share.
We see the BPO company as one focused on revenue growth margin expansion and disciplined investments in attractive growing markets.
Document Technology will leverage its track record of market leadership and strong cash flow generation to a sustained and investment grade rating and shareholder-friendly capital allocation plan.
Let’s look at more closely at each company.
The Document Technology company will be the global leader in a $90 billion document management and document outsourcing market with the presence in approximately 180 countries.
We have a broad portfolio of products and are the equipment revenue market share leader.
Our managed print services offerings are widely recognized as best-of-breed by customers and industry analysts.
Despite secular decline in the printing industry our Document Technology business remains highly profitable with annuity driven revenue representing more than 70% of our sales.
Through relentless cost discipline this business generates strong and consistent cash flows that allow us to make strategic investments to generate to penetrate higher growth markets such as Aqueous inkjet high-end color printing managed print services and workflow.
BPO is a leading enterprise for the next-generation of Business Process Outsourcing with $7 billion in revenues.
In this business we enjoyed the number two position in market share in an industry that is expanding by more than 5% annually.
We are advantaged with differentiated capabilities and help clients improve their flow of work we bring expertise in managing transaction intensive business processes and are applying new innovations to automation solutions.
We have market-leading positions in healthcare transportation public sector and a range of other industries.
Our high recurring revenue and high renewal rates reinforce our confidence in our ability to grow market share and expand margins going forward.
We are very excited about the opportunities ahead of us for these two businesses.
With increased strategic focus we can capitalize on their unique strength and capture the value creation opportunities that we see in each of them.
In conjunction with the separation announcement we have also launched a strategic transformation program targeting incremental savings of $600 million over 3 years.
This brings our total cumulative savings target to $2.4 billion during this period which includes ongoing productivity initiatives.
In 2016 we expect a total of $700 million in annualized savings.
The plan is companywide and will include a thorough review of how we work and how we operate.
Bottom line we are not only optimizing our portfolio and capital structure we are also driving a strategic transformation.
This will improve our competitive position and help expand margins in both our businesses during the separation process and beyond.
Our employees will benefit from working for industry leaders with streamlined structures and fast decision-making.
The companies will have greater flexibility to align employee incentives and rewards to business performance.
For clients each company will maintain its leading service delivery and innovation excellence but will be able to more quickly respond to market forces and client needs through focus and agility.
And for investors focus to companies with optimized capital structures and capital allocation policies to present distinct and compelling investment cases and will be well-positioned to deliver value.
Let me spend a moment on the separation process itself.
We are committed to executing the strategic actions seamlessly in the shortest possible timeframe.
The separation is expected to be completed by the end of 2016 subject to customary conditions.
We expect that the transaction to be U.S.
federal tax free for our shareholders.
During the process we will remain focused on our clients partners suppliers and employees and delivering strong financial results.
There are of course a series of key milestones that we will need to achieve in the upcoming months to complete the transaction and we will keep you updated on our progress.
And as you read this morning Xerox entered into an agreement with Carl Icahn related to the governance of the BPO company following the planned separation.
Details are included in the 8-K that we filed today.
Now let me make a few brief comments on the fourth quarter before turning over to Leslie for a detailed results discussion.
We delivered strong performance in the face of challenging market conditions.
Highlights were; revenue of $4.7 billion in the quarter down 5% in constant currency year-over-year annuity revenue was 83% of total revenue adjusted EPS of $0.32 above our expectation and $0.27 on a GAAP basis sequential increase in operating margin to 9.2% strong cash flow generation of $878 million in the quarter and $1.6 billion for the full year.
The changes we have made to the Services operating model are beginning to pay off as demonstrated by sequential margin improvement and double-digit year-over-year signings growth.
Document Technology was the industry leader for the 24th consecutive quarter and through focus on performance and productivity maintained its strong margins.
Over the course of 2015 we returned $1.6 billion to shareholders in the form of $1.3 billion in share buybacks and over $300 million in dividends.
We have increased our annual dividends by 11% to $0.31 per share the highest level since 2000 beginning with a dividend payable April 2016.
Leslie will discuss our 2016 guidance and some changes that we will make in our reporting.
We expect 2016 to be a strong year for Xerox as well as a foundational year for the two companies.
Now I will turn it over to Leslie.
Thanks Ursula and good morning everyone.
I will start by walking through our results and then covering 2016 guidance before handing it back to Ursula to wrap up.
In summary we delivered solid results in quarter four.
Services came in above our expectations driven by good sequential margin improvement.
Document Technology revenue was weaker than anticipated primarily driven by lower supply sales but margin remained in the middle of our range reflecting our ongoing cost discipline and business model flexibility.
Q4 cash flow as anticipated was seasonally strong and drove $1.6 billion of full year operating cash flow resulting in a healthy ending cash balance of $1.4 billion.
During the year we returned a substantial amount of cash to our shareholders with $1.3 billion in share repurchases and $326 million in dividends.
Turning to the earnings slide I will walk through the income statement.
Revenue in the quarter was down 8% at actual currency and 5% at constant currency.
Currency cost us approximately $150 million on the top line.
Services’ top line was flat at constant currency helped by solid 3% growth in Document Outsourcing offsetting a 2% decline in BPO.
Document Technology declined 10% at constant currency and drove the overall revenue decline.
I will speak more about the drivers when I review the segments.
Gross margin of 31.3% was down 80 basis points year-over-year but up 40 basis points sequentially.
Sequential improvement was driven by Services while the year-over-year decline was driven by Document Technology as well as a greater mix of services which carries a lower gross margin.
RD&amp;E was lower by $5 million year-over-year and SAG was down $59 million or 6%.
Good expense reductions in absolute terms but not sufficient to offset revenue declines so operating margin of 9.2% was down 120 basis points year-over-year and operating profit declined 18%.
Adjusted other net expense was down year-over-year driven by lower restructuring costs as anticipated in our quarter four guidance.
Equity income was $32 million in the quarter down $9 million year-over-year reflecting lower profits in Fuji Xerox driven in part by the continued negative impact of translation currency.
Our quarter four adjusted tax rate of 21% was below our guidance of 25% to 27% benefiting our earnings by about $0.02 and reflecting the impact of recent U.S.
tax legislation that extends R&amp;D tax credits.
Bottom line despite revenue headwinds we delivered solid Q4 adjusted earnings of $0.32.
Moving on to our Services results while many of the headwinds we have highlighted in the past continue the benefits of the new operating model are beginning to be realized.
Services revenue declined 3% and was flat at constant currency consistent with both Q3 and full year performance.
BPO was down 2% as a result of lower new contract ramp from softer signings in earlier quarters and our decision last quarter to reduce our financial risk and not fully complete the Health Enterprise Medicaid platform implementation in Montana and California.
Good growth continues in Document Outsourcing up 3% driven by strong Xerox Partner print services growth as well as strong equipment revenue growth in enterprise accounts following continued good signings.
In terms of the opportunity ahead total signings in the quarter were up 26% year-over-year and 8% for the trailing 12 months.
New business signings were up 22% year-over-year in quarter four.
This really strong growth includes the Florida tolling contract.
We are pleased to close on this contract and begin implementing a comprehensive tolling solution that leverages our best-in-class proven Vector tolling platform.
Excluding the Florida contract new business signings were up 10% in quarter four so a very good signings quarter.
Our renewal rate in the quarter was 78% below our 85% to 90% target range and reflects in part one larger loss renewal opportunity which would have been financially unattractive.
Services segment margin was 9.4% down 40 basis points year-over-year but up 130 basis points sequentially and above our 9% Q4 margin expectation.
The set of services decisions and actions we implemented last year are beginning to deliver better results.
We have recognized that we still have work to do.
First to continue the grow signings and translate that into revenue growth.
Second to improve our business mix with a greater proportion of our revenue from higher value offerings.
And finally to capture additional efficiency including streamlining and automating more of our delivery capabilities.
I will now turn to Document Technology.
Revenue in the quarter was down 10% at constant currency with the additional quarter four weakness coming from lower U.S.
supply sales driven in large part by channel dynamics.
For the full year revenue was down 8% below our initial 2015 expectation of a mid single-digit decline.
The largest driver was a developing markets weakness throughout the year.
The Document Technology revenue decline is almost half when the growth from Document Outsourcing is included along with Document Technology.
Activity in the quarter was mixed with good growth in a number of color segments partially offset by the lapping of prior year product launches in areas such as entry production color.
Overall 2015 was a lighter product introduction year and we look forward to more launches in 2016 starting this quarter with a broad office product refresh following – followed by a number of exciting production printing announcements we will be making at Drupa the printing trade show which occurs every 4 years in Germany.
Document Technology margin of 11.8% was in line with our full year guidance of 11% to 13%.
Ongoing disciplined cost base management and the flexibility of our business model we are able to partially offset the higher revenue decline negative mix from lower supplies and higher pension expense.
Moving to cash flow we had a strong post to the year for operating cash flow and a very good full year for free cash flow which was $1.3 billion.
This enables us to continue to invest in select growth opportunities and return value to shareholders through repurchases and dividends.
Cash from operations was $878 million in the quarter and $1.6 billion for the year in line with our full year guidance.
Q4 cash generation was roughly flat to the prior year and reflected higher working capital contribution higher discretionary pension contribution and normal strong quarter four seasonality.
Investing cash flows were $19 million used with $80 million spent on CapEx and $9 million on acquisitions partially offset by proceeds from surplus property sales.
Cash flow from financing was a $278 million used including debt reduction of $199 million and $77 million for preferred and common stock dividends.
Our cash balance at the end of quarter four was $1.4 billion providing us with flexibility as we enter 2016.
Turning to our capital structure we ended quarter four with $7.4 billion in debt a $200 million reduction in the fourth quarter and a $374 million reduction for the year consistent with our expectations.
Applying 7 to 1 leverage on customer financing assets our allocated financing debt at the end of quarter four was $3.9 billion leaving core debt of $3.5 billion.
We continue to manage our capital structure to maintain credit metrics consistent with our investment grade credit rating.
Turning to capital allocation 2015 was another year of strong capital returns to shareholders.
We repurchased 1.3 billion in shares resulting in almost 10% reduction in shares outstanding.
We also delivered $326 million in dividends which included a 12% per share increase to the common stock dividend.
Over four years we have almost doubled our common stock dividend when including the 11% increase we announced today.
So in total we have returned over $1.6 billion to our shareholders greater than free cash flow of $1.3 billion with the incremental capital coming from part of the IPO sale proceeds.
We are steadfast in our commitment to return capital to shareholders and be good stewards.
And we have a strong track record to backup that commitment having returned greater than 50% of free cash flow to shareholders each year over the past 5 years.
For 2016 we plan once again to deploy greater than 50% of our free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase while balancing our need to manage our debt to a level which is consistent with our investment grade credit rating.
We also intend to support our longer term growth objectives and plan to invest $100 million to $400 million on acquisitions with the focus continuing to be on expanding our capabilities in attractive markets.
Before reviewing our 2016 guidance I would like to highlight a few reporting changes we will be making beginning this year.
These changes will bring our reporting and guidance practices more in line with our peers.
I will briefly summarize the changes and note that we have a full explanation on Slide 25 in the appendix.
We will exclude three additional items from adjusted earnings to give a clearer picture of underlying operating performance.
These items include restructuring expenses certain retirement related costs and transaction costs from the planned separation and strategic transformation.
Retirement related costs will also be adjusted out of our segment results and we are moving to student loan business that we are running off from the services segment to the other segment.
Finally starting in 2016 we will include developing markets within our constant currency calculations to give a truer picture of our constant currency revenue performance.
We have additional information on these reporting changes in the appendix including revised results for 2015 that will provide a comparable basis for 2016.
Moving to our 2016 guidance on this basis we anticipate full year constant currency revenue to decline 2% to 4% with flat to 3% growth in services more than offset by declines of 5% to 7% in Document Technology.
At January 15 spot rates we anticipate a negative currency impact on revenue of 1% to 2% for the full year with a higher impact in the first half than the second.
Considering the uncertain macro environment we don’t expect our revenue to deviate substantially from trend but we do expect modest improvement in both segments as we move through the year and lap the onset of some headwinds in both Document Technology and Services.
We expect Document Technology margin to be roughly in line with 2015 that’s within a 12% to 14% range excluding retirement related costs.
We expect Services margin to improve and be in a range of 8% to 9.5%.
Adjusted earnings guidance of $1.10 to $1.20 represents a 3% to 12% growth from 2015.
Finally we expect to generate operating cash flow of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion and invest $300 million in CapEx yielding $1 billion to $1.2 billion in free cash flow.
This guidance is below 2015 cash flow as it includes settlement outflows associated with our decision last quarter to not fully complete the Health Enterprise Medicaid platform implementations in Montana and California as well as a higher than normal level of restructuring as we implement our strategic transformation program.
Transactional-related costs associated with the separation are still being estimated and aren’t yet reflected in our cash flow or GAAP earnings guidance.
For quarter one we expect adjusted earnings per share between $0.21 and $0.24.
So to summarize for quarter one and full year 2016 we have set achievable objectives that reflect first improvement in the business tied to the actions and investments we have made over the past year; second prudent expectations given economic uncertainties and headwinds; and finally continued investment in the business and implementation of the first year of strategic transformation activities that will further prepare the Document Technology and BPO businesses to be strong standalone companies.
With that I will hand it back to Ursula to wrap up.
Thanks Leslie.
Let me recap and reinforce a few key points.
First this is an executive team committed to enhancing value for Xerox shareholders.
And with the support of our board we are taking bold steps to do that by separating into two companies and undertaking a transformative productivity and efficiency program.
Second the plan to separate into two strong independent companies is the right step forward for Xerox as each company will benefit from enhanced focus and lower cost structure and an appropriate capital structure.
Each will have the resources and focus needed to capitalize on unique growth opportunities and an operating model and cash flow characteristics to create value and drive in this sector.
Finally we are fully committed to becoming a much leaner and more efficient organization both at Xerox in 2016 and continuing on at the two companies in the years after.
These efforts will dramatically improve the way that we do business.
Thank you for joining us today.
Our efforts to transform Xerox are underway and we look forward to communicating our progress in the coming months.
With that let me turn things over to Jennifer who will open it up for questions.
Thanks Ursula.
Before we get to your questions for Ursula and Leslie let me point out that we have several supplemental slides at the end of our deck which provide more financial detail to support today’s presentation and complement our prepared remarks.
For the Q&amp;A I would ask participants to limit follow-on and multi-part questions so we can get to everyone.
At the end of our Q&amp;A session I will turn it back to Ursula for closing comments.
Operator please open the line for questions now.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from George Tong of Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks.
Good morning.
Ursula can you provide some examples of how splitting the business can improve execution and drive better services results? Hey George and thanks for the question.
I think that there are probably three areas that I can refer to.
And there will be a mix between both Services and the Technology business not only in Services for sure.
The investment profile that we will – that we have been making and will need to continue to make is to invest more in automation of our Services delivery infrastructure.
That investment – those investment needs obviously compete with other investment needs in our tech business.
And we would be able to actually focus those investments more – pointedly more just more and it’s a big focus of ours and as the market has changed we have realized that we have to make more investments there automation cloud-based services service-as-a-service offerings etcetera.
Second is on talent interestingly this is both businesses.
The dynamics of these two businesses one grows one doesn’t grow that much one throws off a lot more cash the other one doesn’t actually at the leadership level will be able to actually have more refined incentive structures around the leadership of these two companies that aligns very well toward their dynamics and their growth profiles.
And the third is around how we operate outside of the United States.
It’s one of the areas that we put a lot of energy in our Services business trying to actually piggyback on the infrastructure of our tech business.
That was probably one of the most difficult areas for us to break into.
And now we will be able to interestingly enough focus back our tech business on taking care of the tech sector and be very selective in how we expand further outside the United States in our BPO business three areas of difference.
Thanks George.
Operator next question.
And our next question comes from Shannon Cross from Cross Research.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
I have one question on the quarter and then one question on the transaction or what you are doing.
The first is just on the quarter can you talk a little bit about the lower supply sales and how we think about that is that – was that sort of the distributors or was that usage what was sort of in there and how are you thinking about supplies and usage as we go through 2016? And then I had a follow-up.
Thanks.
Sure Shannon.
So let me start first of all by reminding everyone that unbundled supplies in Xerox represent just 20% of our Document Technology revenues different from many of our competitors because we sell so much of our supplies as part of the bundled contract.
With regard to the lower supply sales in quarter four it was in the U.S.
and had to do with reseller stocking levels.
So what we saw in quarter four was a lower level of stocking at the reseller level than we had in the year ago period.
And that typically reflects some combination of the following factors; lower end customer demand given the fact that we have had weaker equipment sales through that segment earlier this year reseller cash management and the level of competitive discounts that resellers choose to take advantage of versus the price discounts from the Xerox level.
So it was unusually weak for us in quarter four.
We do expect better performance in quarter one and going forward.
But we expect supplies revenue will continue to be pressured given the lower level of A4 equipment sales.
Did you have another question Shannon? Could you hear me? Yes.
Hello okay.
Yes.
If you could just help sort of help us walk through if we think about $1 of earnings for Xerox right now and then we split it and we obviously know that the margin differential and you have given guidance in that between the two businesses.
But can you sort of help us walk through on the other line item where you think things will kind of play out I mean I am getting in sort of $0.70 to printing and $0.30 to BPO I mean that’s very much a squishy number.
But just any color you can give us on that.
And then also from a cash flow perspective how we should think about how cash flow has come from the two businesses because we kind of know what they were like in 2009 but if we can get an idea of sort of how you are thinking about it now that would be really helpful? Thanks.
Yes.
So Shannon I will start by saying that more of these details will become clear as we go through the process to separate during the year.
So I don’t – I won’t give you specific answers now.
But I will remind you that the margin in the Document Technology segment is higher than the margin in the Services segment.
And the margin in the Document Outsourcing portion of the Services segment is above the segment average which means BPO is obviously below.
So that should give you some sense as to the profiles of the margins in the two businesses going forward.
With regard to cash flow I think you know that the Document Technology business and the Document Outsourcing businesses are very cash generative businesses.
And the BPO business is less cash generative and is more in an investment and a ramp up growth mode.
Thanks Shannon.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Brian Essex of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning and thank you for taking the question.
I was wondering if you would give us a little bit more detail on the process that you went through how these decisions were made.
And then if you could follow-up with the management structure that you anticipate as you walk through the transition process including what we can expect at the very top leadership level current President like Bob Zapfel and Jeff and how they are going to fit in as well as on the CFO search side and how you anticipate staffing the financial side of the business? Three good questions.
Let me start with the process.
In October actually before October but in October we spoke to you about undertaking a review – a structural review that was focused on our portfolio of offerings and our capital allocation structure and process.
That was in full swing by the end of October and included our Board – the entire management team and our Board of Directors and some advisors that we had from the outside.
And the intention there was to take a look at not only our internal business but as importantly the markets – the trends in the markets the trends in segments of the markets that we are highly invested in healthcare transportation these areas very contemplative steeped in fact in data – facts and data and just a very good bottoms-up process.
That process lasted until just recently ended actually.
And we made the decision that in the middle of January to separate into two companies and to do a separation.
So that was it.
We had no external process pressure on that which has been reported a lot in the news.
Actually it was not engaged at all in the decision making process and so I’m pleased with that.
We came up with this decision based on market trends based on our strengths and weaknesses based on the performance that we had in these two businesses based on the current dynamics and thinking by shareholders by our customers etcetera.
Shareholders meaning how they value allocation methodologies.
As far as management goes one of the things I will start with me as we have gotten this a lot one of the things that was removed from the process early as we went into this and I did with the Board was to move me out of this discussion.
The decision about whether or not we split into two companies or what process we take on a go forward basis can’t be based on an individual or with any worry about an individual.
So literally I said let us go through this kind of agnostic of individual and let’s manage it from a process standpoint.
Good news is that we did that I have a great relationship with the Board.
My future will be contemplated.
I will make some recommendations to the Board and my future will be contemplated as part of those recommendations.
I am both confident and solid in that.
And in the next year by the way we have to spend a lot of time doing three things.
One is taking $600 million – $700 million annualized costs out of the business.
We have to split the company into two and we have to deliver the 2016 plan.
Not small activities.
As far as Services leadership if there is one thing that we will change from a structural standpoint today that we know today even though it’s not implemented today is that the Services leadership will come from the outside.
But I want to make sure that we are clear.
We have – the BPO leadership will come from the outside.
I have a President who runs the Services businesses today.
He is a very valued member of our company.
He does a good job.
We expect – I hope that he continues to operate in the business on a go-forward basis but the new CEO of the company will come from the outside.
CFO we put the CFO on the backburner.
We didn’t totally stop it but we put the search on the backburner as we went into the structural review.
This is a place where we will have strong internal candidates as well as some external candidates.
It’s just a good process to go through that.
And we will have one and then eventually two CFOs as we go forward.
And I am pretty comfortable with that process as well.
I think I got all of the questions answered I hope.
Great.
Thanks Brian.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Matt Cabral of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Yes thank you.
So on the Document Technology business now that you have a more focused printing company as one of the two entities going forward can you talk about your views on the opportunities for consolidation in the market and if Xerox would look to participate in any of that consolidation going forward? Most of our focus in this area has been on distribution consolidation and we are still actively pursuing that type of activity.
We found that our brand is strong and our offers are very strong and we just have to get more people carrying them to the market.
So that will be our primary focus from an acquisition standpoint.
That was one part of the question.
What was the second part I am sorry? I think that was it.
I just highlight a couple of additional things Matt.
On the distribution side as Ursula said we have been adding to the portfolio of businesses in the Global Imaging suite inside of Xerox.
And Global Imaging was an acquisition we did in 2007.
You know it’s been extraordinarily successful and had a very very successful 2015.
In addition to that we continue to pursue opportunities to expand our offerings in Document Technology which includes the acquisition we did of Impika a few years ago in order to position us more strongly up in the high-end of inkjet.
So we see further opportunities in those kinds of areas.
Great.
Very good thank you.
Great.
Thanks Matt.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ananda Baruah of Brean Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Appreciate it.
Ursula we would just sort of just love to get what your initial view is – current view is on how you guys would view I guess sort of the value pitch like really what’s the pitch to investors what will it be for the Doc Tech company given the revenue growth profile margins are really solid cash flow was up obviously.
But as investors begin to develop themselves a view of the Doc Tech company standalone as investable assets how would you like for them to think about it given the constant currency revenue growth profile of the company? And then just sort of a sub-question to that this will be it for me.
Anything that you can talk about that could be additive over time to the revenue growth profile would be – at least philosophically useful as well? Thanks.
Right.
So I will start with the Services with the BPO company and then get into the Doc Tech company.
BPO company think about nimble expensive so growing really keen focus on operational expertise and flexibility and a capital structure and allocation policy that’s aligned towards investing for growth.
Our services business – our technology business is market leader cash generative and having a capital allocation strategy that is focused on returning a high proportion of that capital to shareholders.
It will likely – it will have to be investment grade.
We are going to push hard for that to be the case and invest and then make sure that we setup the company that way because it has a financing business that’s captured as you know and will benefit from the investment grade rating.
And not look at the top line in total you have to look at the top line in sub-pieces.
We will be able to have a better explanation and more discussion about that as we separate the companies meaning that we will start speaking more about the graphic communications business and what happens underneath there and how it is transforming and how we are leading that transformation how our Document Outsourcing business is growing focused and how we are leading the transformations there? So little bit more focused on the dynamics underneath the business that will help to sell both of these companies – the differences around both of these companies.
If Ananda I could just put a point on a couple of things that Ursula said specifically to Doc Tech because I think the growth opportunities on the BPO side are clear.
If you step back and look at the Doc Tech market it’s a $90 billion market.
When we combine the Document Outsourcing growth with the Doc Tech segment what you will see is that our performance was essentially down 4% at constant currency in 2015.
So it is clearly under pressure.
But certainly the developing markets economies were under pressure big time in ‘15 as well.
So I would call it modest decline and as Ursula said with important pockets of opportunity both in Document Outsourcing as well as for example in graphic communications.
So this is an area where we believe that a more focused business will be able to make selective investments in attractive growth markets and improve the performance on the top line.
Thanks Ananda.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Keith Bachman of BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Thank you very much.
I feel like I am always following Ananda’s question.
I wanted to ask you two questions.
I agree with the characterization that the Services business or the BPO parts of the service business is probably not congruent or leveraging the core printer business.
With that said I am not sure anything has really changed.
I am curious what you really learned? In other words why would you buy it? And then secondarily part of the strategy over the last couple of years within the broader context of Services has been M&amp;A.
And I think Xerox has been – has not been able to generate the growth through inorganic means within the M&amp;A side of services.
Is that a pricing issue or a structural issue? What’s the process and as you are in – going through the separation this year will you have the ability to go ahead to engage in M&amp;A even as you are trying to go through the separation? Thank you.
Yes.
So let me take both of those and it will be a little bit of a conversational tone.
Let’s start with the M&amp;A piece.
We have acquired in the first couple of years of our M&amp;A during the year about $350 million worth of assets for a couple of years in a row and the last 2 years have not been able to generate that same level of performance.
We were always shooting for more.
By the way we have – it’s not not seeing opportunities.
The good news is that we do see some.
We also have – but we do have very specific requirements and high hurdles for accepting an M&amp;A deal.
I don’t expect that those hurdles will go away at all.
So we are guiding down as you can see $100 million to $400 million in M&amp;A because we do have – as I said a high hurdle.
I think we will be able to get somewhere in the middle of that range maybe to the high end if we are a little bit lucky there.
So no strategic change in M&amp;A no strategic change in our desire to acquire a little bit narrow and we talked about being a little bit less diversified in our offers definitely focusing on commercial healthcare definitely focusing on transportation and those assets.
Focusing a little bit in those two areas and maybe others in going internationally so – but I don’t think that there is a big change.
We are not having a big change in our strategy for M&amp;A and we are going to keep trying.
As I keep saying I have money to spend.
I am hoping that we can actually use it more frequently than we have in the past.
As far as what has changed 7 years ago I said this a little bit earlier 7 years in business is like 7 years in dog years.
A lot has changed in 7 years.
The healthcare market has changed not only in how healthcare is provisioned and paid for which has a big effect on us.
But in the provider area how much consolidation there has been literally buying and selling of very large customers.
So companies saw our customer set has changed.
International markets have slowed pretty significantly and the dollar has strengthened pretty significantly.
There have been a lot of shifts in technology and etcetera.
So a lot of things have changed in the markets around us.
And all that have done they haven’t changed the fundamentals of the two businesses but it has made it very very clear that fitness and focus is at a premium right now.
And that’s where we have chosen to make our investments.
Fitness and focus I need to invest a little bit more in our Services business particularly as the shifts are happening in there and as a service and cost of automation etcetera.
And we have to be very pointed in our focus in Document Technology and make sure that we continue to drive efficiencies through that value chain etcetera.
So we didn’t look back.
We didn’t spend a lot of time in our analysis looking back to what we did 7 years ago.
We spent all of our time looking forward and we are very confident in our decision on a go-forward basis.
Thanks Keith.
Operator next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Tien-tsin Huang of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Hey great.
Thanks for all this detail.
Long-term and short-term question I guess the short-term one just the incremental savings from the restructuring that you are announcing.
How much of that will we see as incremental in 2016 is that net of any cost synergies we might see from the separation.
And then just the longer term question on the BPO front when you are talking about 5% industry growth do you think when you did your long-term study on the strategic review for that asset do you think that the current business mix can get to a 5% growth rate with better focus and whatnot or do you see there potentially a big shift in the business mix to get there? Thanks.
Let me start with the second question do this first part of the – first question then Leslie will take over.
Second question we haven’t really looked at a specific growth rate and whether we can get the 5%.
But I can tell you one thing and that’s that we can grow higher – faster than we are growing today.
There is no doubt about that.
Particularly as we mix our portfolio we are heavily mixed towards customer care.
That business by the way we can actually grow that business a little bit faster than we are growing it today but that business doesn’t have a margin profile that we actually want to expand too much further.
So we are being very selective in how we go forward in customer care and picking our customer care accounts and engagements that actually are broader than what we would call bare customer care.
And rest of the business lines transportation for sure and commercial healthcare and even government healthcare the core portion of it are growing at rates that can support a 5% rate.
But we have to do some portfolio mixing to make sure that we can actually – mixing and timing to make sure that we can get there over time.
And you will hear more about it as we do even deeper work in the separation process and looking at the BPO business.
As far as – I just want to also transition to this $2.4 billion and make sure that we are clear about what we are doing here.
Normally in Xerox and so every year in Xerox we do a fair amount as you know of restructuring and remixing of how we spend the money.
We get some productivity benefits from our vendors.
And we get the rest of the productivity benefits from us.
This $2.4 billion is foundational in three basic parts.
One we will get some part of it from our normal interactions with our suppliers to make sure they actually drive some of their productivity and give that to us.
We can get to be about $1 billion over the 3 years plus or minus – give or take some.
And we also get naturally every year level of productivity from both our tech and services business foundational.
And what we are explaining and what we are doing with this transformation was taking that first part and the second part and adding on top of it a $600 million additional savings program.
And we are doing that by changing – focusing on changing how we work.
This is not and it’s a big – we are kind of readying ourselves for the markets in the future and the business in the future and trying to actually shift out – take out an additional $600 million as we go forward.
And I will have Leslie go through some of the – a little bit more line item here.
Yes.
So Tien-tsin just to come back and clarify a couple of things when Ursula was talking about customer care it is clearly our objective to expand the customer care margin.
It is not our objective to increase the proportion of customer care business inside of our BPO business.
Perfect.
So we certainly want to grow customer care.
We want to grow the other higher value offers more quickly so that we can drive the BPO margin up.
With regard to cost transformation we save about – we capture about $600 million a year which is roughly 4% to 5% kind of annual productivity.
In addition to that in 2016 we are expecting an annualized savings from the transformation program of about $100 million.
And that will be captured from a variety of focus areas things like the structure of the organization so we can start the two separated companies lien which will include both layers of management as well as support functions and infrastructure.
It will include labor productivity and taking advantage of automation and changing how we deliver services to our customers.
So our expectation is that we will invest about $200 million in restructuring this year in 2016.
And since we will be doing the transformation throughout the year we are really just starting.
We expect the savings that we generate in 2016 will be probably around $50 million from the strategic – from year one of that incremental program.
Thanks Tien-tsin.
Operator I think we have time for one last question.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Jim Suva from Citi.
Your line is now open.
Thank you and congratulations.
It seems like you definitely have done a lot of work and a lot of work ahead.
I have two questions one fundamental operations the other one on the separation.
The first is on the fundamental operations did I hear correctly the renewal rate was around 78% and I believe that seems a little bit normal was there any cause behind that or something that we should be aware of.
And then on the separation the $2.4 billion I believe that’s all about the savings.
The question I have is have you identified the amount of costs associated with the separation like do you need an additional ERP system or human resource systems or are things actually already run right now on two different systems.
I am just wondering if there is separation cost of the $2.4 billion in savings is net of those costs? Thank you and again congratulations on all the news.
So Jim thanks so much for the questions.
Let me start with renewal rate and then I will talk about synergy.
So you are right that the renewal rate was light in quarter four and it was at 78%.
Although for the year the renewal rate was up 3 points to 84%.
There was one large renewal in the quarter that would have been unattractive for us.
And therefore we walked away.
With regard to dis-synergies we haven’t yet spoken about dis-synergies.
But in some of the areas that you are poking about – poking at there has not been a whole lot of integration in for instance IT between the ACS acquisition back then and the legacy Xerox.
So we will talk more about dis-synergies as we go forward.
But we certainly expect the benefits of the separation and inclusive of the strategic transformation to more than offset any of the dis-synergies.
So thank you for joining us and for your questions.
I have a couple of things to close on.
First we are creating two strong market-leading companies positioned to capture unique industry opportunities and maximize value.
Each company will have resources that are appropriate and focus to capitalize on growth opportunities in their markets.
We are going to leverage each company’s distinct growth profile operating model cash flow characteristics et cetera.
And very importantly during this year 2016 it’s about delivering 2016 we are really focused on that.
We closed 2015 well and I want to make sure that we carry that into 2016 and we will keep you up-to-date on how we are progressing as we speak to you throughout the year.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.