Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer; and Ludwig Hantson President of Baxter BioScience.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thank you for calling in.
We're pleased today to announce financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 and also provide you with our financial guidance for 2013.
As you saw in the press release that was issued earlier this morning adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter increased 8% to $1.26 per diluted share.
And for the full year adjusted EPS increased 5% to $4.53 per diluted share.
On a reported basis worldwide sales in the fourth quarter increased 4%.
And for the full year sales increased 2%.
After adjusting for foreign currency Baxter's global sales increased 5% for both the quarter and full year 2012.
Importantly we continue to generate significant cash flow which exceeded $3.1 billion for the year a record level while maintaining a disciplined capital allocation strategy of returning value to shareholders through both dividend increases and share repurchases.
Even in the face of a challenging macroeconomic environment Baxter expanded access and increased standards of care around the world invested to enhance its competitive position innovated and advanced the new product pipeline and delivered solid financial results while providing an attractive return for shareholders.
And in 2013 and beyond we'll focus on the 4 growth vectors that support our objectives and enable us to serve the interest of patients providers and other key stakeholders.
As we've previously discussed these 4 vectors include: enhancing growth by optimizing our core business portfolio; advancing the company's new product pipeline; capitalizing on the opportunity to develop new business models which include public and private partnerships; and pursuing business development initiatives that deliver enhanced returns in the near and long term.
With this in mind Baxter will fulfill our mission of improving quality and access to care as we save and sustain lives globally.
Many achievements throughout 2012 reflect these priorities and were highlighted in this morning's press release so I won't take too much time to review them in-depth.
But let me take just a moment to underscore just a few key accomplishments.
First within the base business we continue to derive significant benefits by taking full advantage of existing opportunities to bring our products and therapies to various markets more effectively.
This includes geographic expansion particularly in emerging markets where 2012 sales totaled approximately $3 billion and growth is approaching double-digits.
For example we penetrated new markets with our inhaled anesthetics portfolio; introduced OLIMEL and NUMETA triple-chamber nutritional therapies in more than a dozen new countries; and received approval for ADVATE in China where more than 50 000 people are living with hemophilia A.
We're also very pleased with the continued success of ADVATE and the momentum that we're gaining from the new prophylaxis label in the United States as evidenced by the acceleration in sales growth to double-digits this year.
And we remain committed to meeting patient needs by augmenting our plasma manufacturing footprint with both internal capacity expansions and external collaborations such as the agreement with Sanquin which was announced later this year.
Second throughout 2012 we meaningfully advanced our new product pipeline.
We received approval of new indications for lifesaving therapies including GAMMAGARD LIQUID for the treatment of multifocal motor neuropathy and TISSEEL for general hemostasis in surgery.
We further advanced clinical programs into late stage development with the initiation of several Phase III trials including the stem cell trial for myocardial ischemia; a trial for BAX 855 a full-length longer-acting recombinant factor VIII therapy; and a second confirmatory Phase III trial evaluating GAMMAGARD LIQUID as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
And we also completed a number of clinical trials in 2012.
For instance we've recently concluded the clinical phase of our first Phase III Alzheimer's trial and expect to announce results in the second quarter of 2013.
We completed the pivotal trial of BAX 326 a recombinant factor IX protein and filed for U.S.
regulatory approval in the third quarter of 2012.
And recently patients completed treatment in the first trial in the United States evaluating the performance and safety of our new home hemodialysis system which will support European CE Mark in 2013.
Third we introduced the concept of developing public-private partnerships.
While we have several of these partnerships already in place in October we disclosed an important long-term agreement with the Brazilian government for an exclusive recombinant factor VIII hemophilia partnership to expand access and provide recombinant therapies to patients in Brazil the third largest hemophilia market in the world.
And lastly we accelerated the pace of business development.
We successfully integrated the Baxa Synovis and SIGMA acquisitions.
We entered into a collaboration with Onconova Therapeutics for European commercialization rights of rigosertib a novel targeted anticancer compound.
This will be an exciting addition to the portfolio where we can leverage Baxter's legacy of treating critical diseases existing leadership position in hematology and sales channel.
And we continued to advance our partnership with Momenta Pharmaceuticals during the year as we've now selected 3 biosimilars targeted for the treatment of oncology autoimmune and other inflammatory disorders.
And finally we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Gambro a global innovator in hemodialysis and acute renal technologies.
This acquisition enhances Baxter's competitive position by creating a global renal therapies business with a comprehensive product offering for both chronic and acute dialysis patients.
This transaction also positions us to capitalize on the attractive fundamentals of the large and growing global dialysis products market and provides true strategic financial and operational synergies at attractive returns well in excess of our cost of capital.
In summary Baxter's portfolio remains strong and we continue to benefit from our focus on lifesaving therapies.
The increased level of R&amp;D investment over the years has transformed the new product pipeline into a robust portfolio of products and therapies that improve the quality of care and address key high potential areas of unmet medical need.
We're committed to working with payors by establishing public and private partnerships as we're well positioned to provide solutions to their increasing challenges.
And we've executed on a number of business development opportunities that align with our core strengths and position Baxter for future success and accelerated growth.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on these or other topics during the Q&amp;A.
So with that I'd like to ask Bob to review the fourth quarter financial results and guidance for 2013 and then I'll briefly come back to provide some additional perspectives.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share on the fourth quarter excluding special items increased 8% to $1.26 per diluted share which is at the higher end of our guidance range of $1.24 to $1.27 per diluted share.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP results include after-tax special items of $206 million or $0.37 per diluted share.
Approximately 65% of this charge is noncash.
The special items primarily include noncash cost associated with the settlement of certain pension obligations in the U.S.
and business optimization initiatives pertaining to certain manufacturing and business operations around the world.
These actions include the elimination of a number of positions as we continue to streamline our operations rationalize our manufacturing footprint and optimize our general and administrative infrastructure.
Annual savings are expected to total approximately $0.17 per share when fully implemented in 2015.
However for 2013 savings will equate to approximately $0.08 per diluted share which is in addition to an incremental $0.05 of savings related to our actions implemented throughout 2012.
And we expect to reinvest a portion of these savings in promotional and marketing activities to support recent label expansions and upcoming new product launches on a global basis.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 before turning to our financial outlook for 2013.
Starting with sales worldwide sales totaled approximately $3.8 billion in the fourth quarter and increased 4%.
On a constant currency basis revenues were in line with our guidance and increased 5% driven primarily by strong growth in emerging markets and BioScience which exhibited robust growth across all 3 key product categories particularly in the U.S.
For the full year worldwide sales increased 2% to $14.2 billion.
And after adjusting for foreign currency sales advanced 5%.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales improved 7% to $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter.
And on a constant currency basis sales advanced 9% representing the strongest quarterly growth this year.
For the full year global BioScience sales increased 3% to $6.2 billion.
And after adjusting for foreign currency sales rose 6%.
Within the product categories recombinant sales increased 1% to $581 million.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 3% as strong performance in the U.S.
with growth of 9% more than offset a decline in international sales primarily resulting from the planned impact of the Australian tender.
Excluding the impact of tenders global recombinant sales advanced 7% in the quarter.
As Bob mentioned earlier throughout 2012 we realized benefits associated with the new differentiated label of ADVATE as we continued to drive conversion from plasma-derived therapies and competitive offerings and drive enhanced penetration of prophylactic treatment.
This resulted in U.S.
recombinant growth of 10% for the full year an accelerated level from what we've experienced in the last several years.
In antibody therapy sales of $425 million increased 5% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
This performance is a result of strong demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID in the U.S.
as we continue to promote awareness and diagnosis of primary immunodeficiency and drive enhanced penetration of our subcu therapy given its favorable tolerability profile and low infusion site reaction rate.
For the full year antibody therapy sales advanced 5% on a constant currency basis.
And excluding the benefit last year of approximately $100 million related to the absence of Octapharma antibody therapy revenues advanced 12%.
Moving on to plasma proteins.
Sales in the quarter were $447 million and increased 13% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
This was due to strong double-digit growth of FEIBA and albumin which offset lower plasma-derived factor VIII sales in the U.S.
In the fourth quarter sales in regenerative medicine advanced 20% to $180 million.
After adjusting for foreign currency sales rose 21% driven by growth of TISSEEL and a benefit from the Synovis acquisition of approximately $25 million.
Finally revenues in the other category totaled $54 million in the quarter and increased 23%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 30% driven primarily by milestone payments totaling approximately $20 million related to our ongoing collaborations with governments on the development of influenza vaccines.
In Medical Products global sales in the fourth quarter totaled approximately $2.1 billion and increased 2%.
On a constant currency basis sales grew 3%.
For the full year Medical Products sales increased 1% to approximately $8 billion.
And after adjusting for foreign currency sales increased 4%.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $675 million and increased 2% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
This was the result of ongoing PD penetration in emerging markets and accelerated patient gains in the U.S.
as well as some onetime purchases by third parties totaling approximately $10 million.
Sales in the global injectables category of $522 million increased 7% and on a constant currency basis sales increased 8%.
Performance continues to be driven by significant growth of certain injectable drugs in oncolytics like cyclophosphamide and growth in our international compounding business.
IV therapy sales advanced 7% to $500 million.
And after adjusting for foreign currency sales rose 8%.
This was due to increased demand for IV and nutritional therapies and incremental sales related to the Baxa acquisition of approximately $15 million.
Infusion system sales totaled $210 million and were lower than the prior year by 11% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
This was primarily due to the difficult comparison presented by the completed transition to the SPECTRUM pump in the U.S.
market.
Finally anesthesia posted sales of $140 million reflecting a decline of 5% on both the reported and constant currency basis.
Double-digit growth across international markets was more than offset by lower sales in the U.S.
which reflected fluctuations in purchasing patterns of U.S.
wholesalers.
For the full year anesthesia sales increased 3% on a constant currency basis.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin in the quarter of 52.4% improved sequentially by 30 basis points and reflects margin expansion of 60 basis points versus the prior year margin of 51.8%.
This was a result of underlying operational expansion driven primarily by the benefit of positive mix.
This performance more than offset a number of headwinds including pension amortization of intangible assets related to recent business development initiatives and government austerity measures.
For the full year gross margin was 51.8% which was 40 basis points higher than the 2011 gross margin of 51.4% and favorable to our full year guidance.
SG&amp;A totaled $810 million and increased 8% with 2 points of growth related to the inclusion of acquisitions.
The remainder of the growth in the quarter is attributable to the impact of incremental pension expense and investments we are making in promotional and marketing initiatives and in international markets to enhance our global presence.
In total these items more than offset a benefit from foreign currency aggressive management of discretionary spending and operational efficiencies derived from our process reengineering efforts.
For the full year SG&amp;A increased 5%.
Excluding expenses associated with acquisitions which totaled approximately $80 million for the year SG&amp;A increased 2%.
R&amp;D spending in the fourth quarter increased 4% and totaled $263 million.
Growth on a constant currency basis was in mid-single-digits reflecting the progress we are making in advancing a number of programs in our pipeline including those in our leading hemophilia franchise the Alzheimer's programs and our Phase III adult stem cell trial.
R&amp;D for the full year exceeded $1 billion a record level for the company.
The operating margin in the quarter was 23.8%.
And for the full year the operating margin was 22.9%.
Interest expense was $22 million compared to $15 million last year.
This increase is due to incremental expense associated with the debt issuances earlier this year and lower interest income.
Other income totaled $22 million in the quarter and is primarily attributable to a favorable foreign exchange impact on balance sheet positions.
The tax rate was 21.7% for the quarter which resulted in a year-to-date tax rate of 21.9% in line with our guidance.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted EPS was $1.26 per diluted share an increase of 8%.
And adjusted EPS for the full year was $4.53 reflecting a 5% increase.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $945 million.
And on a year-to-date basis cash flow from operations exceeded $3.1 billion an improvement of 10% year-over-year.
Capital expenditures in 2012 totaled $1.2 billion resulting in free cash flow of $1.9 billion.
DSO ended the quarter at 53.3 days comparable to last year and reflecting a 4-day improvement versus last quarter.
Inventory turns of 2.5 improved versus the third quarter but are lower than turns of 2.7 last year due to the impact of recent acquisitions and increased inventory levels to support late-stage clinical trials and growing demand.
Lastly for 2012 we repurchased 25 million shares for $1.5 billion or on a net basis 15 million shares for approximately $1 billion in line with our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the full year 2013.
As you saw in the press release we expect earnings of $4.60 to $4.70 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of the Gambro acquisition which is projected to close at the end of the second quarter with estimated dilution of $0.10 to $0.15 per diluted share.
Dilution is primarily related to noncash amortization of intangible assets which will be finalized upon closing.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 10% and this includes a half year sales contribution from Gambro of approximately $830 million.
Excluding Gambro Baxter sales growth on a constant currency basis is expected to be approximately 4%.
Given our current outlook for foreign exchange rates we do not expect foreign currency to materially impact sales growth.
For the full year we expect gross margin for the company to be 100 to 120 basis points lower than the gross margin in 2012 of 51.8%.
While we expect margin expansion of approximately 100 basis points in the base Baxter business as a result of positive mix benefits we expect this to be more than offset by intangible asset amortization related to Gambro incremental pension expense government austerity measures the Medical Device Tax and foreign currency.
In terms of expenses we expect SG&amp;A to increase approximately 10% and R&amp;D to grow in mid-single-digits both reflecting the addition of Gambro.
We expect interest expense to total approximately $170 million reflecting the impact of a new $3 billion debt issuance related to the acquisition and we expect other to be an expense of approximately $20 million to $30 million.
Although over the long-range plan we expect the tax rate to drift upwards to approximately 23% in 2013 we expect a tax rate of approximately 22% and we also expect a full year average share count of approximately 550 million shares which assumes approximately 300 million in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we plan to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $3.3 billion and expect capital expenditures to total approximately $1.7 billion which includes Gambro and the investments we are making to enhance our plasma manufacturing footprint in Covington Georgia.
Moving to sales and our assumptions for Medical Products and BioScience in the major product categories.
Recall that in 2013 we're moving to a new franchise reporting structure and therefore providing guidance in the new format this morning.
For your convenience we've posted the historical restated sales including 2012 by quarter to the Investor Relations section of our website.
Now beginning with Medical Products.
On a constant currency basis including the half year contribution related to Gambro we expect sales growth in the low-teens.
Excluding Gambro we expect sales for Medical Products to grow 3% to 4%.
Specifically we expect Baxter renal sales which totaled $2.5 billion in 2012 to grow in low single-digits driven by mid-single-digit growth in PD and lower HD revenues.
As mentioned earlier the base business sales will be augmented by Gambro and a half year sales contribution totaling approximately $830 million.
We expect fluid system sales which includes IV solutions infusion pumps and access sets to grow in mid-single-digits.
2012 sales for this category were $2.9 billion.
We expect specialty pharma sales which includes our nutritional therapies and inhaled anesthetics to also grow in mid-single-digits.
2012 sales for this category were $1.5 billion.
And we expect our BioPharma Solutions business to record comparable sales to 2012 of approximately $1 billion.
For BioScience we currently project sales growth on a constant currency basis in the 4% to 5% range.
Our outlook includes low to mid-single-digit growth in our hemophilia franchise which includes recombinant and plasma-derived factor VIII and factor IX therapies and FEIBA and inhibitor therapy.
This franchise posted sales of $3.2 billion in 2012.
We expect mid- to high single-digit growth in BioTherapeutics where sales totaled more than $2.1 billion in 2012.
This growth will be driven primarily by strong demand for immunoglobulin therapies including GAMMAGARD LIQUID and subcu therapies as well as growth in albumin and our treatment for Alpha-1 deficiency.
In BioSurgery we expect high single-digit growth.
Sales in this category totaled $673 million in 2012.
And finally we expect our vaccine franchise which recorded sales of $254 million in 2012 to grow in mid-single-digits.
As mentioned in our press release for the first quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.03 to $1.05 and sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 2% to 3%.
Based on our outlook for foreign exchange rates we do not expect foreign currency to meaningfully impact sales growth in the first quarter.
Thanks.
And now let me turn the call back over to Bob.
Thanks Bob.
In closing I'm very pleased with the progress that we made in 2012 financially operationally and strategically.
We achieved sales and adjusted earnings per diluted share growth of 5% as we continued to respond to an evolving and demanding environment.
We generated strong sustainable cash flow of more than $3.1 billion increased our dividend by 34% and returned significant value to our shareholders.
We strengthened our core portfolio meaningfully advanced our new product pipeline that's as strong today as at any time in our history and we executed on a number of collaborations and business development initiatives that complement our current businesses leverage our capabilities and provide enhanced growth in the future.
I remain very confident in the long-term growth prospects for our company which we laid out in detail late last year at our investor conference in Chicago.
Our entire management team remains committed to enhancing shareholder value in the coming years as we implement our strategies deliver on our commitments and more importantly meet the needs of the patients and customers that utilize our products to save and sustain lives.
Thank you.
And with that let's open up the call to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bob obviously there's a lot of reclassification with the new reporting structure.
I wonder just can you give [ph] a high-level commentary year-over-year core Baxter is slowing incrementally just a little bit into '13.
I mean just maybe give us some high-level commentary on some of the significant headwinds and tailwinds to growth.
And obviously there's incrementally more headwinds in '13 and sort of what some of those are.
Yes sure David.
So a couple things.
I would say in 2012 we benefited from the acquisitions of Synovis and Baxa which are now fully in our base.
And as you rightly point out we are facing some headwinds here as we go into 2013 starting with government austerity measures which we project to total approximately $90 million which includes approximately $30 million for the U.S.
Medical Device Tax which we are putting through sales and margins.
The other $60 million relates to a combination of austerity measures in Europe but also in Asia Pacific particularly in China as well.
So an even larger austerity impact this year than what we've seen in the last couple of years.
I would also just remind everyone we will remain constrained for plasma production here in 2013 as we work through bringing the old L.A.
facility back online and ramp up our new L.A.
and Rieti facilities.
But that is definitely on-track.
We should have increasing product availability throughout the course of the year.
And so the other thing I would mention is we are going to anniversary some of the recombinant factor VIII tender impact related to Australia but that doesn't really happen until the middle of the year.
So in particular as you look at our guidance for the first quarter the plasma product constraints are most acute for us in the first quarter.
We have increasingly robust supplies to move throughout the year.
As I mentioned we don't anniversary the Australia tender impact until the middle of the year.
The austerity measures that I've mentioned will be -- are impacted immediately as we begin the year.
And what's going to accelerate growth from the 2% to 3% that we've got in the first quarter as we move towards approximately 4% for the full year relates to a couple of things one of which is the timing of tenders particularly in plasma-derived products such as FEIBA and plasma-derived factor VIII.
Those are more concentrated in the second and third quarter than they've been in prior years.
We do expect to begin to start shipping to Brazil related to recombinant factor VIII in the second quarter as well.
And as I mentioned increased product availability throughout the course of the year on the plasma-derived side will also help us drive accelerated growth beyond the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And maybe just a follow-up on some of the key growth drivers we saw in '12 and then maybe continuation to '13.
So the first obviously is the recombinant franchise in the U.S.
I think actually accelerated again in the fourth quarter on a comp adjusted basis.
So when you think about the prophy label for either Bob prophy label plus the higher dosing what do you think the trend line is for U.S.
recombinants heading into '13? And then the IVIG business obviously stronger U.S.
weaker o US as you've been prioritizing in 2012.
When do you see that sort of basing out in '13? And is there any evidence that the reduced supply in Europe is beginning to have an impact on pricing in Europe for IVIG? Yes I'll handle the IVIG one first.
I would say we've largely made the move that we're going to make in terms of product shift by the end of 2012 here.
So 2013 we're going to be operating at a similar level to what we're exiting 2012 at.
That does imply a little bit of benefit year-over-year in the first quarter or 2 but that's largely played out in terms of the shift.
In terms of pricing the markets that we continue to participate in in Western Europe I would say that we haven't seen any significant impact one way or the other on price at this point.
And then as it relates to recombinant factor VIII...
Yes.
David Ludwig Hantson is with us this morning.
Ludwig why don't you just take a minute and maybe update the callers on what's going on with the whole uptake on prophylaxis in the U.S.? Because obviously we're experiencing some very encouraging results.
Yes.
So thanks Bob and thanks for the question.
So yes this is a success.
We got the label about a year ago.
So we are 1 year into the launch for ADVATE prophy.
It's a success from a -- I would say from a -- first of all from a patient perspective.
Unmet medical need is still high.
We still have a lot of patients who are on demand [ph] so we're switching over.
When you look at the number of patients that were switched over to a prophy regimen we're talking about more than 200 patients.
We are looking at continuing that trend into 2013.
So clearly we are moving into 2013 with a strong momentum.
Having said that we're also aware of the fact that we might get competition by the end of 2013 into this space which might slow us down a little bit.
But overall we believe that we will continue to grow ADVATE in 2013 and then moving forward.
Then maybe bridging also to FEIBA since it is in the same space you might have seen the fact that we got prophy results for FEIBA.
We are moving towards a BLA submission first quarter of 2013 in the U.S.
We already have the indication in Europe in the majority of the countries.
So you will see that by the end of this year when we get the approval in the U.S.
an increased focus on moving our FEIBA patients to a prophy regimen.
Is that helpful David? Research Division</strong> Perfect.
Larry Keusch of Morgan Keegan is on the line with a question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Whoops wrong firm.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Bob you've obviously done a bunch on the development side in 2012.
Just wanted to gain a little sense of your appetite for M&amp;A.
As you go forward does the integration of Gambro hold you back a little bit? Or how do you think about that? Well obviously given the magnitude of the Gambro deal Larry yes it's going to limit us a little bit for a while.
But I would say as opportunities arise the smaller kind of bolt-on things that we've done more of over the last couple years we're certainly in a position to continue to do that.
I mean I actually couldn't be more pleased with the progress and the momentum on the BD front over the last 2 years in the company.
I think we've done a lot of good stuff.
The smaller deals we've done have I think helped us develop competencies in terms of how you integrate and so on.
So I think we're very well positioned once we manage through the antitrust process and close the Gambro deal to move ahead and integrate Gambro.
But no we continue to be very open-minded and receptive to BD things that emerge one of which actually we just announced this morning.
I don't know if you had a chance to see it.
It came across the wire which was to require some hemophilia assets from Ipsen Pharma.
And so that's representative of the kind of thing we're going to continue to do.
Yes.
Larry I would just add that given how we're financing the Gambro acquisition and the structure of that and the use of offshore cash while it is a significant acquisition it is going to allow us to position ourselves and maintain some strategic flexibility going forward here as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And then just a quick one just because I wanted to revisit it.
How should we -- with the approval of ADVATE in China -- and I know this is going to be sort of a longer-term process.
But how should we think about what steps need to occur before that becomes a meaningful driver of revenues for you guys? Because it would certainly seem to be a big opportunity.
Well it is Larry.
But obviously given the different market dynamics the adoption on that is going to be somewhat slow.
But we're excited about the longer-term opportunity.
I think we have to be realistic in terms of the adoption curve.
And we look for ways to leverage our other hemophilia assets as well in China.
And as we've talked before this is a very large market largely untreated and undiagnosed.
And besides launching ADVATE more broadly this is about leveraging our emerging broader portfolio from plasma-derived to RECOMBINATE to ADVATE to the other products that are being approved because it's critical for us to establish a leadership position and maintain that in China for the long-term benefit.
I don't know Ludwig if there's anything to add to it? Yes.
Maybe I'd like to add the following.
So if you look at the BRIC countries you're talking about more than 1 million activity units.
And when you bring it down most of these patients are being treated with plasma-derived products.
So there is a great opportunity in each of these countries to convert from plasma to RECOMBINATE but also increase the diagnosis rate.
And I would say the bigger ones are clearly Russia and Brazil.
So you're aware of the fact that we have an agreement with the Ministry of Health and Hemobrás in Brazil and Bob mentioned that we will start shipping products.
Our plan is to start shipping product to Brazil second quarter of this year.
We also have a regulatory strategy to penetrate Russia which we're also working towards approval this year.
And then China is the third one.
So clearly it's bigger than China so we have growth opportunities in this business that clearly will continue to help us move ADVATE and hemophilia forward.
And Larry it's Mary Kay.
And I would just add that while we have approval in China we haven't received reimbursement approval so we actually haven't launched.
We will launch in 2013.
Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Could you spend a minute on the agreement this morning to acquire the Inspiration assets and maybe just walk through where you think that program fits in relative to FEIBA and maybe just give us your thoughts as well as in terms of the clinical profile of that product relative to FEIBA? So Mike I'm going to ask Ludwig to address specific clinical application of the product where they fit more broadly in our hemophilia strategy.
And then maybe Bob Hombach can briefly comment on some of the financial aspects although I think it was pretty clearly detailed in our press release.
So Ludwig in response to...
So maybe first thing is we are excited about this opportunity.
We believe this is a great fit with our current portfolio and with our pipeline.
It is a late stage.
It's a Phase III asset in an unmet medical -- for an unmet medical need.
So the asset itself so OBI-1 this is a recombinant porcine factor VIII which is being investigated for the treatment of acquired hemophilia A and hemophilia A with inhibitors.
And the profile of the molecule may help unmet needs that persist in the treatment of hemophilia and specifically in the management of bleeding from patients who have acquired hemophilia A.
So this is different than what we have with FEIBA.
FEIBA -- so OBI-1 versus FEIBA those 2 products have unique product profiles and potential applications.
And when you look at the difference between those 2 indications from a patient perspective clearly acquired hemophilia A is very rare though a potentially life-threatening bleeding disorder.
It's estimated that 1.5 cases per 1 million lives annually.
It is caused by the development of inhibitors.
And different from congenital hemophilia acquired hemophilia is typically a disorder of older adults and occurs equally in both males and females.
So clearly different from the space that we're in with ADVATE and with FEIBA.
Now when you look at the pattern of bleeding it is also different.
Those people come into the hospital they typically bleed in the skin the muscles the soft tissue as opposed to bleeding into the joints.
So I think my message is that the patient segmentation is different the market segmentation is different.
The strategy is complementary to what we have with FEIBA and ADVATE.
And we're looking at this as a great addition to our portfolio.
And with respect to the financials Bob? Yes.
I would just say that we've structured this deal as we have many other deals in that we're paying primarily for success here.
And so that the milestones are tied to approval and then additional milestones assuming we achieve certain sales levels going forward here.
So we're pleased with how the structure is set up.
And from a sales contribution standpoint while this is late stage it does have orphan drug designation and fast-track status.
It will take a bit of time to ramp up sales.
So I would say over our LRP here it would be a modest contributor to the top line.
But beyond our LRP and over time this -- assuming we get multiple indications here could be more than a $200 million product for us.
So the time line so we're looking at a potential submission later this year.
FDA will decide how fast they want to move.
But this is orphan drug and got fast track.
So difficult to comment on the launch but the impact will be more in 2015 than in 2014.
Okay.
Mike is that helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes that was helpful.
So let me switch to just another pipeline after -- the partnership with Onconova could you just spend a minute on the MDS trial design and just the expectations for when that would reach its crossover point in that Phase III trial and when we would see a readout from that? Okay.
Ludwig? Great.
So we're also excited about this one.
So you see there's a lot of stuff going on in 2013.
And so they have 3 programs -- or we have 3 programs.
One is an IV program in high-risk MDS patients.
The second program is an oral program in low-risk MDS patients.
And then there's a program in pancreatic cancer patients.
The readout for those studies -- first of all the high-risk MDS readouts we will know top line data by fourth quarter of this year.
Remember this is an overall survival study.
And this is -- as far as the trial design this is versus standard of care.
Now the longer patients will live the better I assume it will be for the patient but also for the outcome of the study here.
But we expect fourth quarter 2013 to have the top line data for the high-risk.
As far as the low-risk oral program there will be response data by second quarter of this year.
And then the time lines for the pancreatic study we will have interim survival data first quarter of 2014.
As far as design is concerned so the sample for the high-risk it's 270 patients.
The enrollment is on target.
And I think we're close to 220 patients out of 270.
The low-risk is 60 patients.
We're more than halfway in the enrollment.
And the pancreatic is 150 and we've passed the 110 patients enrollment.
I hope for the next...
So Mike this is European right? So Ludwig just expand a bit give your comment on a couple things.
One the magnitude of the opportunity.
But before that maybe why this is so complementary with our channel presence particularly in Europe.
Yes so as far as the opportunity financially if we hit on all 3 we believe this could become a $1 billion opportunity.
When you look at our rights we have EU territory so we have Europe so we have 33 countries.
From a patient perspective this could be big because those patients at least in the high-risk don't have any treatment options available.
So we would be able to make a significant impact in the lives of those patients.
And then from a channel perspective I do believe this is a very strong bolt-on and add-on to our hemophilia franchise.
MDS is right in the middle between hematology and oncology.
And at the end of the day we're market leaders in the hemophilia.
When you look at the channel in Europe we're talking about centers of excellence these are very specialized centers focusing on MDS both low-risk and high-risk.
We believe that we are in an excellent position to have a great partnership.
And when the data -- if and when the data is positive and we launch that we can make a significant impact here.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And just one follow-up.
So the IV high-risk once you have that readout and you submit that is orphan drug.
So if that goes well you could be looking at an EU approval late 2014.
Is that fair Ludwig? Well if U.S.
-- and U.S.
regulatory strategies and time lines are different.
We have Europe.
For Europe we will be looking in 2015 because Europe doesn't have the same accelerated time lines as the FDA in U.S.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to come back to the antibody therapy business for a second please.
I think if I take your comments about successful demand creation through the SG&amp;A line conversion of subcu but then square that against some of the capacity constraints that you've talked about you're still getting a lot of growth out of that franchise in terms of dollars.
Could you maybe help fit all the moving parts together maybe it's mix or price just to help us understand how [indiscernible] numbers were in the context of a tough comp and the supply constraints? Yes.
So we are operating under supply constraints and none of that have changed.
But as we've talked about as we've had to look at global allocation of a constrained product here U.S.
demand has been particularly strong.
Prices tend to be higher in the U.S.
than most other markets.
So as we've shifted product we do get a mix benefit from that and that certainly has aided the top line growth profile there.
No nothing new on the pricing front.
We've talked about an expectation of a modest price increase and that's what we expect to see here in 2013 as we saw in 2012.
So I think David it's primarily the mix impact.
And as I mentioned earlier we've largely done the shift that we're going to do.
And so as we move into 2013 there'll be less of that.
From an impact we will have a little bit of a year-over-year benefit in the first half of the year.
But again by the third or fourth quarter this year we've largely made the shift we expected to make.
The other thing I would just add to that to what Bob said is obviously we continue the conversion to subcu which uses a higher volume so that drives volume growth.
We continue to operate primarily within the PI indication in an underdiagnosed and an underdeveloped market even in the U.S.
So we continue our focus on developing those markets and we continue to see expanded use in the whole neurology space which as a general rule also uses volumes of drug at a higher level.
So you have all kinds of upward arrows.
If we want to drive an underlying demand we'll just look forward to moving into a position where our capacity expands and the long-term outlook for this business is very robust.
Yes David one last thing to point out.
That also then the stronger fourth quarter plays in a little bit to some of the tightness and somewhat lower expectation for sales in Q1 of this year.
As I mentioned as we move throughout the course of this year as we bring old L.A.
back up and so we'll have a better supply.
But overall we're still looking at approximately mid-single-digit volume increase in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Sure that makes sense.
And maybe just a follow-up on the P&amp;L more on the cash flow side.
You grew operating cash flow 10% this year.
You're guiding to a similar type number in 2013.
Obviously you have a step-up in CapEx associated with Georgia and the Gambro transaction.
But is that type of cash generation just cash flow generation versus earnings growth sustainable over a long period of time? And then how does that factor into your thinking on financial flexibility? The question came back -- up earlier about can you do deals despite Gambro.
But if this type of cash flow is sustainable and continues I would assume that there's plenty of flexibility for more business development or further return of cash to shareholders.
David I would agree with that.
And let me kind of walk you through that.
So the guidance we've given is about 7% increase in cash flow in 2013 versus 2012.
It was a bit higher in 2012 versus '11 because we had a pension contribution in '11 didn't have one in '12.
But that 7% cash flow growth is very consistent with what we talked about in our long-range plan outlook for the business to grow cash flow to approximately $4.5 billion by the end of the long-range plan.
And yes we do believe that is definitely achievable.
Now one thing to point out one of the headwinds we've got here is pension expense year-over-year another $0.10 headwind here as we go into 2013.
More than 70% of that increase is related to noncash amortization of actuarial losses on the balance sheet.
And so over the last 3 years we've actually incurred $175 million cumulatively of additional pension expense or $0.25 a share.
And again about 75% of that is noncash.
So increasingly you're going to see a divergence between earnings growth and cash flow growth because of the impact of this noncash amortization on the P&amp;L that we don't see in the cash flow statement.
So it does mask the strength of the underlying operating performance and we do feel good about our ability to continue to generate cash flow in that roughly 7% or in line with earnings as we go forward.
And that will again with the structure of the Gambro financing and use of offshore cash leave us in a position of having strategic flexibility continue to look at M&amp;A and asset and capital allocation going forward here including a strong and growing dividend at approximately a 40% payout ratio.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe just one quick follow-up on that.
I mean if you look at the long-range plan I mean obviously there have been these sort of headwinds every year on pension and things of that nature.
I mean how should we be thinking about those on a go-forward basis? And I don't mean for this to come off cynically but do those go away at some point whereby you do realize that long-range plan growth rate? Or is cash flow a more appropriate way to look at things? Well I would say as it relates to pension we've done a lot in the last 5 or 6 years to try to mitigate risk.
We've closed the U.S.
plant the new entrants [ph].
That's 2/3 of our overall footprint in terms of the liability.
We've lowered our expected return on assets.
We've changed the investment allocation mix to be 40% fixed income.
We've bought treasuries of a hedge in the pension fund since 2008.
But despite all of that we continue to see these headwinds.
We did take an additional action here in the fourth quarter to offer lump sums to the terminated vested portion of our pension population which is about 28% of the liability.
That actually saved $0.05 per share.
So in other words our pension headwind would have been $0.15 per share in 2013 had we not taken that action.
Despite all of that again we have this $0.10 headwind.
However given that most of this expense increase is this amortization and that this actuarial loss was heavily driven by the 2008 stock market performance that usually amortizes over a 5- to 7-year period.
So going forward here even if interest rates don't go up we will see an improving pension situation and potentially a material tailwind here over the next several years.
But at the moment for 2013 given where we're at it remains a headwind.
So I think that one is one I feel increasingly comfortable it's going to stop being a headwind and potentially become a tailwind.
As it relates to austerity measures which is really the other one that's a harder one to gauge.
But as you know in our LRP outlook we did assume some ongoing austerity measures going forward.
Bob would you comment on -- because I'm not sure everyone understands this why this whole pension thing is disproportionately greater for Baxter as a result of some legacy positions that were taken okay? Could you just expand on that for a minute? Sure.
So as Bob mentioned when the Allegiance spinoff was done in 1996 and the Edwards Lifescience spinoff was done in 1999 management at the time decided to retain the assets and liabilities associated with those 2 spinoffs.
As I mentioned that ended up accounting for almost 30% of overall pension liability today.
That may have been a great decision back in the '90s when stock markets were performing well and interest rates were high.
But in the 2000s and where we're at today with record low interest rates here that has created an amplified effect on our P&amp;L profile here more than you might otherwise expect.
So again we took some action here in the fourth quarter to try to offer lump sums to lower that exposure to that population and were successful and saved $0.05 a share.
But that's one of the issues we've been dealing with here over the last several years.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So just to follow up on the theme of pipeline updates.
Two quick ones for me one on HyQ and one on Alzheimer's.
First on HyQ I know you made some comments a couple of weeks ago.
But can you just update us on when you expect to meet with FDA and be able to communicate to us sort of go-forward details on the clinical trial requirements and new pathway for that? Okay.
One of the reasons Ludwig's with us this morning.
It took us 5 questions to get there.
But anyway go ahead.
This is good so thanks for the question.
So first of all from a European perspective we continue the European regulatory process.
And we expect a decision -- we're talking about HyQ.
Both HyQ and then Alzheimer's.
Thank you.
So we're continuing the European regulatory process and we expect a decision first half of this year for Europe.
Then with respect to the FDA for the U.S.
we have confirmed a meeting with the FDA in the second quarter of this year where we will be discussing interim data from preclinical studies that we are conducting.
So we started those preclinical animal studies together with Halozyme in 2 animal models the rabbits and the rat.
And we expect to complete these studies by year end.
So interim data will be discussed with the FDA second quarter of this year.
So then the regulatory path forward of course will depend on the outcome of our meeting.
So that's on the short version on the HyQ.
As far as...
Before you go to that Bob any follow-on on the HyQ piece before Ludwig moves to Alzheimer's? Research Division</strong> No I think that's pretty straightforward.
Okay good.
Please go ahead now.
Yes and then Alzheimer's your question is overall status of where we are with the program? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So just wondering if the time lines that you laid out a couple weeks ago are still good if there's any update there.
You said previously that you would soon unlock the data and begin the analysis and I'm just wondering has the data been unlocked and has the analysis begun? And should we still anticipate a Q2 data release? So yes you should expect a data release second quarter of this year.
As I mentioned we have different assessments.
We have clinical assessments.
We have assessments at the brain level as well as CSF as well as our plasma assessments.
These assessments are done -- some of them are done by the investigators.
These are the clinical assessments.
But others are done by I would say a centralized lab which takes a little bit longer.
We are planning to close the database by the end of this quarter.
And that's why you will see the data second quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> And then what's a best-case regulatory outlook for Alzheimer's just in terms of what the requirements will be for approval? And assuming you do have good data obviously you probably expect some incremental demand on IVIG even though approval will take a while.
So I guess just as last question what's the best-case regulatory outlook for the approval pathway? And then how do you deal with the extra demand that you'll probably have for that product knowing that it'll be off-label if you do have positive data? Sure.
Well first of all the robustness of the data will define our regulatory strategy plus the FDA and the European authorities will define our strategy moving forward.
So it's difficult to speculate what the outcome will be of the study.
So you know that we did a futility analysis.
And we know that on the basis of the futility analysis the probability of success for achieving statistical significance in one or both of our primary endpoints is greater than 20%.
So that's the only information that we know at this moment.
So robustness what I mean by that is you have a clinical assessment.
These are primary endpoints.
You have a brain assessment you have a plasma and you have a CSF.
So that will define our discussion with the regulatory authorities and will define our regulatory pathway forward.
So for me at this point it's very difficult to speculate how this is going to look like.
It's too early.
And to bridge back to your question on data so I mentioned you will have the data second quarter of this year.
This will be the top line data that we will be releasing.
We will -- we are planning to show all the details of all the different assessments at a major Alzheimer congress in July.
These are our time lines.
And then with respect to demand I think it's fair to say that we're not going to detail or promote the indication until we get the indication.
The timing for that will be related to of course our regulatory strategy.
And then Bob already mentioned the fact that we -- 2013 is a little bit of a transition period or a transition year as far as IVIG volume is concerned since we are upgrading L.A.
1 old L.A.
And so that will accelerate.
We have new L.A.
that's still accelerating.
We have next year.
We have the Sanquin agreement that will come on board by the next of the year.
Plus longer-term we have also the Covington opportunity plus we have Rieti.
So 2013 being a transition year picking up by the end of this year and then new opportunities as of next year to further accelerate the volume.
But the fact is if ultimately the data is extremely compelling a; and b there's no other emerging therapies the reality is even with our expansion efforts which were just detailed by Ludwig we would not be able to meet the demand for this.
So it does require I guess what I would describe as a different paradigm a different approach.
I think this whole notion of public-private partnerships collaborations with governments ultimately is something that may have to be considered.
Now obviously it's too early to jump in the middle of that.
Right now we can control what we can control.
There's a reason when we scoped the Covington plant out we did it with a broader vision beyond the 3 million liter capacity that we're initially putting in.
So if the data emerges in a positive way we can accelerate the ramp-up longer-term.
So we continue to evaluate a variety of options in this regard Bob.
But suffice it to say given the plasma-derived nature of the therapy and the number of patients conceivably that would need to be treated it will require fundamentally different approaches a number of which we're obviously evaluating right now.
Our next question comes from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I had a few questions one on -- a couple maybe.
The hemophilia franchise the guidance I think was low to mid-singles.
And I guess we don't have kind of the comparable number for 2012.
I was wondering if you could kind of help frame that in terms of what -- if you rolled up FEIBA plasma-derived recombinants what that growth rate would've been.
It seems like -- or at least I would've thought given the momentum in U.S.
recombinants that perhaps that would've been a little bit stronger than that or perhaps there's just some conservatism baked in there.
And then maybe one for Ludwig.
And we kind of touched on this at the analyst meeting.
You discussed the ease of use for ADVATE the time for infusion or the simplicity of that.
And you had mentioned at that time the potential to further ease that process.
And I was wondering if at this point you'd be comfortable providing some more color around what some of those activities maybe.
Bob you take the first part and then Ludwig...
Yes so Rajeev a couple of things on hemophilia growth in '13 versus '12.
In 2012 we saw a very robust growth for FEIBA particularly in the U.S.
off a less strong 2011.
So we're growing off a much stronger base.
And while we're excited about the prophylaxis label potential for FEIBA that's still -- it's in submission phase here so we can't actively promote that.
So we have more modest FEIBA growth assumptions in the U.S.
in 2013 versus '12.
And then as it relates to recombinant factor VIII we've talked about in prior quarters particularly in the first part of 2013 as there were some shifts going on within the specialty pharma -- pharmacy distribution channel within the U.S.
in terms of payor relationships and so on.
We did see some inventory build.
I think we gauged it at 2% to 3% of the roughly 10% growth we were seeing in the first half of the year.
So we need to work a little bit of that off as we go into 2013 as well.
And as Ludwig mentioned earlier and as we mentioned at the investor conference we do expect some competition in recombinant factor VIII in the U.S.
later this year could be multiple players depending on time line for approval of Novo and for Biogen Idec's longer-acting.
And so we baked that into our assumptions as well.
So Rajeev as far as the infusion experience is concerned the total infusion experience takes about 5 minutes.
The infusion itself takes 30 seconds to 1 minute.
Of course it depends on the experience.
It depends on the volume and so on.
But you also know that we changed the diluent the volume of our vials a while ago.
And we are now the lowest volume of 2 ml.
So we're talking about very limited volumes in -- which of course shortens the infusion time.
We also have plans -- as I mentioned at the investors conference in October we also have plans to upgrade our BAXJECT II to our BAXJECT III device.
We have not disclosed how it looks like.
But again it will be an upgrade.
It will be a great experience for the patient.
And we're planning to launch the device before the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> If I could sneak in one more and maybe for Bob.
Could you just talk about -- you talked about the clinical aspects with Alzheimer's and some of the regulatory assets.
Could you touch on the commercial end for Alzheimer's IVIG and what level of bandwidth that's receiving internally? Or is that something you wait till you see the data and then that -- step up the activity from that point forward? Yes.
There's virtually no activity on that aspect Rajeev to be very candid.
Our final question comes from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
I think you had talked a little bit about the conversion.
It sounded like maybe you added a point or so or maybe more...
Conversion of? Research Division</strong> Conversion of on-demand to prophy based on the new label.
Yes and I wanted to get a sense of -- you dialed in a certain amount of competitive pressure you talked about in the U.S.
I'd love to understand maybe what kind of share you feel like you're gaining laterally not just in terms of converting patients and what kind of uptake you've seen from a couple of the convenience aspects that you've rolled out in hemophilia namely twice-a-week dosing and the larger vial the prophy vial.
And then I have one follow-up.
Yes I don't think that we're in a position to quantify at this stage the share impact.
I would just -- suffice it to say Matt that as Ludwig mentioned earlier I mean we're encouraged with the uptake and the response to the prophy.
We're looking forward to some of the others such as the BAXJECT III launch later in the year.
I would just say our momentum right now particularly in the U.S.
in hemophilia is the strongest it's been in at least a couple years if not longer.
Obviously we're going to do everything to not only maintain that and enhance that but to quantify that in terms of share is probably a little bit premature okay? Research Division</strong> And then just to be clear.
I guess I'm trying to understand the one benefit is getting on-demand patients to go to prophy with the label.
The other is getting prophy patients to go to twice a week.
Any sense of the uptake there? Ludwig why don't you comment on each of those then? Yes.
It's difficult to give you numbers here.
But the way that we look at this for us and this is also how we rolled out the launch of this new indication is that for us the efficacy and the safety message is first before the convenience.
When you talk to patients when you talk to physicians it's about controlling their bleeds.
And our vision for the organization is to strive towards a bleed-free world.
And that's what counts much more than moving patients from every 2 days to every 3 days.
So our launch was staggered.
We started with the efficacy message beginning of 2012.
And only after 6 to 9 months into the year we started working on the moving towards every 3-day dosing regimen because clearly we heard our patients and our physicians that it's the efficacy controlling the bleeds that counts.
Yes.
And Matt I would just add in.
We really started to promote that with the 4 000 IU approval that we received late in the second quarter or third quarter of last year.
And in the fourth quarter frankly we saw good uptake of the 4 000 IU which is probably a good indication of conversion that we're seeing to 2-day dosing with our units being about 10% of our total units in the fourth quarter of the 4 000 IU.
So we are seeing uptake there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
One follow-up just on plasma and FEIBA.
Just to be clear I wasn't sure if you had mentioned this.
But have you started firing up those plants again? Or are you just on-track to do it here early in the year? And then on FEIBA sort of a background question.
I'm not sure if -- is FEIBA caught up in any of the supply issues related to your fractionation facility maintenance? Or is that just you have plenty of supply there? We have sufficient supply in FEIBA.
Bob why don't you comment on the plant situation? Yes.
So we took the older L.A.
facility down in the September time frame and we've completed all of the work that we expected to do.
So we're in the process of preparing to start the plant up for production in the back half of February so everything's on schedule.
And we'll have product available to the market in the third quarter is the time frame.
No changes there.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission if you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations of Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks John.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectation.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning and thanks for calling in this morning.
We're pleased today to announce our financial results for the first quarter and also to provide you with an update for our full year 2011 outlook.
As you saw in our press release which was issued earlier this morning EPS of $0.98 per diluted share exceeded guidance for the quarter and increased 5% versus the prior-year on an adjusted basis.
This performance was the result of better-than-expected sales in gross margin operational leverage and the benefit from our ongoing share repurchase program.
First quarter sales growth after adjusting for FX [foreign exchange] was also up 5% as growth improved on a sequential basis across multiple product categories.
And we benefited from the sales of our Generic Drug business which we had expected to divest in the first quarter and therefore did not include in our original guidance for the year.
We now expect to close this transaction within the next few weeks.
While Bob will provide some more details on our first quarter financial performance in just a few minutes I'm pleased that our -- that given our current outlook we're in the position to raise our full-year sales and earnings guidance.
Our strong financial position continues to provide us the flexibility to invest in and pursue opportunities that expand our diverse product portfolio with innovative products that save and sustain patient lives and position our company for enhanced growth.
Always with an eye toward delivering increased value to our shareholders.
Innovation remains our most important strategic imperative and will continue to be the driving force behind our future success.
Although R&amp;D [research and development] spending in the quarter was somewhat below the prior year we do continue to fund all major R&amp;D programs and have made significant progress in advancing our pipeline over the last several years.
I'd like to take a moment just to update you on a few key programs and some recent highlights.
First during the quarter we submitted a Biologics License Application or BLA to the FDA [Food and Drug Administration] for the U.S.
approval of TISSEEL Fibrin Sealant as a hemostatic agent in vascular surgery.
This is an expansion beyond the current marketed indications and completes the necessary clinical requirements for a broad hemostasis label which represents a very significant opportunity for our Regenerative Medicine business.
Secondly we announced approval in Europe of PREFLUCEL a seasonal influenza vaccine utilizing our proprietary Vero cell technology under the mutual recognition process.
The 13 participating European Union countries including Germany Spain United Kingdom and the Nordic countries will formally implement the license on a national level making the vaccine available for the 2011 and 2012 influenza season.
And lastly we continue to be successful in driving differentiation of GAMMAGARD LIQUID by offering various dosage forms enhancing delivery options and expanding the number of indications.
For example we recently introduced the first and only 30-gram dose vial for GAMMAGARD LIQUID in the United States.
This dosage form is the most frequently prescribed dose for primary immune deficiency patients and enhances user convenience.
As you know we're currently awaiting FDA approval for GAMMAGARD LIQUID subq [subcutaneous] which we submitted to the agency last year.
We continue to expect approval in the second quarter of this year allowing us to launch in the U.S.
and participate in this fast growing segment of the market.
In addition late last year we completed the Phase III clinical trial of HyQ which allows for enhanced delivery of GAMMAGARD LIQUID subcutaneously facilitated by recombinant human hyaluronidase.
We're currently in the process of preparing our submission for approval in both the U.S.
and Europe and expect to communicate final top line results later this year.
As you know Baxter is also conducting Phase III clinical trials exploring the use of GAMMAGARD LIQUID as a therapy for two neurological conditions.
The first is a trial for the treatment of multifocal motor neuropathy or MMN a neurological disorder characterized by a progressive limb weakness.
We completed enrollment in 2010 and expect to conclude the trial later this year and submit for approval in 2012.
And finally we continue to advance our Phase III trial for Alzheimer's.
To date we've randomized 330 patients and we're on track to complete enrollment by mid-2011.
With an 18-month follow-up period we currently expect to complete trial by the end of 2012.
In addition we plan to initiate a second confirmatory trial before the end of this year.
Also our primary investigator Dr.
Norman Relkin has now submitted a manuscript regarding the Phase II data for consideration by a leading peer review journal and it accepted.
The manuscript will be published in the coming months.
These achievements depict just a handful of the programs in our pipeline that will present great opportunities for Baxter in the years to come.
I'm increasingly encouraged by the progress we continue to make and we look forward to updating you on additional R&amp;D achievements throughout the year.
Before turning the call over to Bob let me briefly comment on the announcement we made earlier this week regarding the acquisition of Prism Pharmaceuticals a specialty pharmaceutical company that has developed and received FDA approval for multiple presentations of NEXTERONE an antiarrhythmic agent amiodarone IV [intravenous] including the first and only ready-to-use premixed IV formulation.
Given that this drug is typically administered to patients and extremely time-sensitive in critical care situations the benefits of a ready-to-use premixed IV form of NEXTERONE are clinically significant.
For this reason we believe this unique product satisfies unmet clinical need offers an opportunity to expand the current market and also has potential for application in additional geographies outside the United States.
This transaction demonstrates our intent of being more proactive on the business development front.
It also exemplifies the types of opportunities that we'll pursue those to complement our existing portfolio and expand our market-leading position; leverage our global footprint channel or customer relationships; capitalize on our core scientific or manufacturing capabilities; and provide for low integration risk which provides a higher confidence in achieving success.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on these or other topics during the Q&amp;A but with that I'd like to now ask Bob to review our first quarter financial results in more detail and also our guidance for the rest of the year.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the quarter before turning to our revised financial outlook for 2011.
Starting with sales worldwide sales totaled $3.3 billion in the first quarter and increased 5%.
Excluding foreign currency sales also increased 5% which compares favorably to the guidance we provide of sales growth in the 2% to 3% range.
This is a result of better-than-expected sales in Medical Products partially due to the benefit of the Generic business that were not planned as well as strong sales of antibody therapies.
In terms of individual business performance beginning with BioScience global BioScience sales of $1.4 billion increased 3% in the first quarter.
Excluding foreign currency BioScience sales increased 4%.
Within the product categories recombinant sales of $512 million were flat to the prior year and excluding foreign currency sales increased 1%.
Excluding the U.K.
tender impact of approximately $20 million total ADVATE sales growth was in-line with overall market growth of 6% to 8% on a global basis.
We expect improved growth in the second half of the year for the Recombinant business as we begin to annualize the impact of the U.K.
tender in the third quarter of 2011.
Moving on to plasma proteins sales in the quarter were $308 million and increased 5%.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency sales increased 8% which was a result of very strong volume particularly in the U.S.
and Europe for FEIBA ALBUMIN and plasma-derived Factor VIII.
In Antibody Therapy sales of $374 million increased 16%.
Excluding foreign currency sales advanced 18% and continue to reflect the success we've had with our commercial strategies and a benefit related to meeting demand previously served by Octapharma.
Volume growth globally of more than 20% was partially offset by the impact of our pricing touchups implemented last year.
And a 3-percentage-point impact from the termination of the WinRho distribution agreement in midyear 2010.
Sales in Regenerative Medicine which includes our BioSurgery products totaled $140 million and increased 18% on both the reported basis and after adjusting for foreign currency.
These results reflect solid growth particularly for FLOSEAL and a benefit of just over $10 million in incremental sales related to the Apatech [ApaTech Inc.] acquisition which was completed at the end of the first quarter last year.
Excluding ApaTech sales gross for the category was in high single digits.
Finally revenues in the other category which includes vaccines totaled $74 million and were down 38%.
In the quarter strong growth of the FSME [FSME-IMMUN] vaccine was more than offset by the difficult comparison related to pandemic revenues which were approximately $50 million in the first quarter of 2010.
As you know last year we combined our Medication Delivery and Renal businesses to form a new business: Medical Products.
This new organization aligns common areas of capability within Baxter while creating increased capacity to pursue new growth opportunities.
Going forward we will be reporting the combined business as a new segment.
Total global sales in the first quarter for Medical Products were $1.9 billion reflecting an increase of 6% on a reported basis.
After adjusting for foreign currency sales increased 5%.
Turning to the product categories Renal sales totaled $587 million and increased 1% on a reported basis.
Excluding foreign currency sales declined 1% as strong PD [peritoneal dialysis] growth particularly due to continued momentum from patient gains in the U.S.
Latin America and Asia was offset by the expected loss of PD patients to another provider and lower HD [hemodialysis] revenues.
Sales in the Global Injectables category increased to 15% to $517 million and excluding foreign currency sales increased 14%.
Contributing to this performance was very strong growth in our Contract Manufacturing and Compounding businesses as well as strong demand for MINI-BAGs and select premixed drugs.
I'd also mention that the Global Injectables category includes the Generic Injectables business with sales of approximately $40 million in the quarter.
As Bob mentioned earlier we now expect to complete the divestiture of this business to Hikma Pharmaceuticals during the second quarter.
IV Therapies sales totaled $428 million and rose 9%.
Excluding foreign currency sales were up 10%.
Double-digit growth in the U.S.
was a result of share gains associated with the new Novation agreement improved IV pricing an increased demand for a variety of nutritional products including greater customer adoption of CLINIMIX our proprietary dual chamber parenteral nutrition therapy.
Infusion Systems sales totaled $211 million and increase of 1% and were comparable to the prior year after adjusting for foreign currency.
Lower COLLEAGUE [COLLEAGUE Volumetric Infusion] revenues were partially offset by improved sales of access sets and expanded placements of the Spectrum pump [SIGMA Spectrum pump].
Finally Anesthesia sales declined 7% and totaled $118 million in the quarter.
This performance was driven by an expected reduction in inventory levels by a major U.S.
wholesaler as we finalized a fee-for-service agreement and competitive pricing thrust pressures related to generic Sevoflurane.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L gross margin for the company was 51% in the first quarter which exceeded our expectations and reflects a sequential improvement of 100 basis points versus the fourth quarter.
Compared to the prior year gross margin was 90 basis points below last year's gross margin of 51.9%.
Favorable mix and margin improvements from across the portfolio and a modest benefit from foreign currency were more than offset by the incremental costs associated with the Castlebar PD solution issue we discussed last quarter and the impact from manufacturing inefficiencies incurred in the Plasma business during 2010.
SG&amp;A totaled $716 million in the quarter and increased 5% versus the prior year period.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales was 21.8% which is similar to last year.
We continue to aggressively manage general administrative and discretionary spending areas across the company and are beginning to recognize the benefits associated with the actions that we discussed last quarter.
However as expected these savings are more than offset by select investments and several key promotional activities aimed at demand creation and new product launches as well as incremental pension expense and the pharmaceutical drug tax.
R&amp;D spending of $214 million declined 6% in the quarter as investments in key R&amp;D programs across the portfolio were offset by lower milestone payments to partners completed clinical work and a modest impact from foreign currency.
The operating margin in the quarter was 22.7% 30 basis points lower than the prior year.
Interest expense was $10 million compared to $19 million last year the reduction is primarily the result of higher rate debt that matured in the second half of 2010 and higher interest income.
The tax rate was 21.1% in the quarter 210 basis points higher than last year's rate of 19%.
This is in line with our expectation and it's a continuing result of a change in earnings mix between higher tax and lower tax jurisdictions.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per share increased 5% to $0.98 per diluted share which exceeded our guidance of $0.92 to $0.94 per share.
Turning to cash flow cash flow from operations was strong in the quarter and totaled $371 million compared to $279 million in the first quarter of last year.
Growth in cash flow can primarily be attributed to lower U.S.
pension contributions this year of $150 million versus $300 million in the prior year period.
In addition free cash flow of $173 million improved by $124 million versus the first quarter of 2010.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were $198 million versus $230 million in the prior year period.
DSO ended the quarter at 56 days which is higher than last year by 3 days.
This is largely due to our international country mix as DSO in the U.S.
remains at approximately 30 days.
Inventory turns of 2.4 improved year-over-year.
This is primarily driven by improvement in BioScience with the reduction in plasma inventories.
And lastly during the first quarter we repurchased approximately 12 million shares of common stock for $640 million or on a net basis 9 million shares for approximately $510 million in line with our objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the second quarter and full year 2011.
First for the full year we now expect earnings per diluted share of $4.20 to $4.28.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we expect full year sales growth excluding foreign currency up 3% to 4%.
We currently expect foreign currency to benefit sales growth by approximately 1 point.
Therefore we now expect reported sales growth of approximately 4% to 5%.
This outlook includes first quarter sales of approximately $40 million related to the Generic Injectables business the divestiture which is projected to close in the second quarter.
As a reminder full year sales for this business totaled approximately $200 million in 2010.
For the full year we now expect gross margin in the 51% to 51.5% range a modest improvement over the gross margin rate in 2010 of 51.1%.
We expect both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D to grow in low to mid-single digits for the year.
We expect operating margins to improve modestly as savings related to the optimization charge taken in the fourth quarter of 2010 and other mix benefits more than offset cost inefficiencies in the Plasma business increased pension expense and the impact of the pharmaceutical drug tax.
We now expect interest expense for approximately $75 million and other expense which includes noncontrolling interest to total approximately $40 million.
Given our mix of earnings we expect our tax rate to approximate 21% to 21.5%.
And finally we expect a full-year average share count of approximately 575 million shares which assumes approximately $1 billion in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect cash flow from operations of approximately $2.8 billion.
This includes a 2011 pension contribution of $150 million and an outflow of approximately $300 million related to the execution of the COLLEAGUE consent order.
Now to expand on the full-year sales assumptions for each of the businesses.
First on a constant-currency basis we expect low single-digit sales growth for the Medical Products business.
Excluding the impact of Generic Injectables divestiture sales growth is expected to be mid-single digits.
Within the product categories we expect Anesthesia sales growth in the low to mid-single digits infusion Systems sales to be flat to down 2% and IV Therapy sales to grow in mid-single digits.
This category also includes parenteral nutrition products which are expected to grow in high single digits.
In addition we expect Global Injectables sales to increase in low single digits.
Excluding the generics divestiture we expect sales in this category to increase 10% to 12%.
And for Renal we expect sales growth in low single digits as lower HD revenues modestly offset low single digit growth in PD.
For BioScience we now expect sales excluding foreign currency to grow in the 4% to 6% range.
For the Recombinant business we continue to expect growth for the full year to be in low to mid-single mid-single digits which includes the annualized impact of the U.K.
tender.
Second we expect Plasma Protein and Antibody Therapy sales to increase in high single digits.
I would remind you that our guidance assumes the return of Octapharma in the second half of the year therefore Antibody Therapy sales growth will moderate in the back half of 2011.
Third we expect Regenerative Medicine sales to grow in low to mid-teens.
And finally we expect the other category within BioScience to decline approximately 20% reflecting a difficult comparison in the first quarter from pandemic revenues recorded in 2010.
For the second quarter as we mentioned in our press release we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.01 to $1.03.
And sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 4% to 5%.
Based on current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to increase in the 6% to 7% range reflecting a 2 percentage point benefit from currency.
Thanks and I would like to open the call up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Thank you.
[Technical Difficulty] Thanks appreciate it.
Just a couple of clarification questions first maybe -- the $40 million in Generic Injectables sales that you reported this quarter do you think that the Street had backed out that that full business at this point? I mean I think we had this wasn't sure whether you thought consensus had already taken that business out of the market? I'd let Mary Kay answer that one.
Yes.
I think for the most part given that our guidance excluded it we have exactly to close it in the first quarter that most of the models had taken out the Generic Injectable business.
Okay.
And then one other you're raising your earnings guidance for the year but you're not raising the cash flow guidance can you just comment on that? Yes.
I mean that's something we continue to take a look at.
And given that COLLEAGUE as we indicated is a pretty big driver as we execute on the consent order depending on how that plays out.
We could see some upside to that approximately $2.8 billion guidance that we've given today.
Okay.
And then I'll go ahead and now say the question you're going to get probably 3 or 4x which is: Bob do you just comment on how you think the Octa-Gamma-term [Octapharma-GAMMAGARD] whenever that does occur in Europe and the U.S.
how do you think that will influence the market? Not necessarily just the back half of this year but as we go out 12 months? I think it's probably difficult to speculate Mike.
I think their share globally was what Mary Kay roughly 11% is that about right? Right low double digits.
Right.
Low double digits as you know.
So it's meaningful but in the context of the global market Mike it's not that significant.
I do think that any time there's a quality related issue I think it's realistic to assume that customers are going to be somewhat more thoughtful about how they jump in and so on.
So we'll see how it all plays out.
As Bob described in his comments we're assuming midyear relaunch.
What the scale of capabilities are going to be at their end I think is also speculative at this stage.
But I do think customers are going to be thoughtful before they just jump back in the boat.
So we'll see.
Okay.
I'll let some others jump in.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Okay Mike.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
[Operator Instructions] Hey this is actually James in for David.
First question is on how growth trends should be developing through the year.
Clearly there are a  couple of different growth and margin headwinds in 2011.
But as you walk through last quarter it seems like most of this fall more on the first half than in the second.
If I look at guidance though it looks like EPS growth is actually expected to be declining a little bit in the second half versus the first half? I mean maybe some of this is related to the return of the competitor to the market in the second half but is there anything that I'm missing here? And how much do you think this reflects conservatism about the back half of the year versus just very strong results in the first quarter? Well let me start by maybe all three of us can think about this because I think there's a lot of moving parts.
Obviously as we move out of the second quarter given our assumption on Octapharma relaunch and then as we move into the fourth quarter where we had volume from Octapharma last year that that makes the year-to-year comps more challenging in that regard.
So that's one item.
Bob Mary Kay what are some of the other pieces? Yes and just to build on the Octapharma thing for a moment given the long weak cycles in this business we are going to be thoughtful about how we manage throughput in anticipation of them coming back into market.
We've seen very strong demand for our products in the first quarter.
We're going to continue to support that demand but again be thoughtful.
So we're tempering our growth and thoughts in the back half of the year related to IVIG [intravenous immunoglobulin] related to the Octa situation.
And I think at this stage of the game in any year as Bob mentioned there's always puts and takes and so we did see some slight benefit in the quarter from retaining the Generics business that we expect to close at divestiture here very very shortly.
So in terms of run rate we have to make a slight adjustment for that and I think a little bit of conservatism as well given that we just got one quarter under our belt here for 2011.
The other thing I would say James is that -- clearly we're expecting our R&amp;D to ramp up in the second half of the year.
The fact that first quarter R&amp;D spending was below last year in some ways it was as much of a kind of a timing artifact as anything.
As I mentioned in my comments obviously all of our important programs continue to be funded.
And our strategic attempt is to continue to grow R&amp;D so that too.
So again a number of moving parts from the R&amp;D ramp up to the Octapharma and so on.
And as Bob said first quarter of the year started off well we're pleased but we still got long ways to go in an environment which continues to be turbulent and so on.
So I think those are all factors that we dial into our thinking.
Okay that's very helpful.
Secondly just on HyQ obviously we're getting a little bit closer to the launch there I was wondering if you can tell us in terms of how you're thinking about speed of launch after approval? How that might go in terms of share ramp and any attempt at extra infrastructure required there? No we're still ways from launch as you know as I mentioned we continue to expect to file for approval in the third quarter in both the U.S.
and the EU.
And again I don't want to speculate on what the turnaround time would be on approval.
But clearly it's some time in 2012 and more likely in the latter half of 2012 all things considered.
So we're still a little bit away from the launch.
I think given the sales force expansion that we put in predominantly in the U.S.
last year focused on GAMMAGARD promotion targeted at under diagnosis of primary immune deficiency and so on.
We have them in our base really SG&amp;A resources and commercial resources and so on.
I think that we can adequately promote HyQ later on next year when hopefully we get approval.
And I would just add operationally recognize that HyQ is going to be essentially our 10% GAMMAGARD LIQUID product kitted with hyaluronidase from Halozyme.
So switching over from regular to HyQ is going to be very straightforward from us from a production and logistics standpoint.
Okay.
And then one -- just last one on Castlebar.
Maybe I missed this earlier but you broke out the impact financially last quarter.
And it seems like they're still having an impact on margins.
Could you just give us a sense of just how material that was this quarter? How that should progress through the year? Go ahead.
Yes it was a fairly significant impact in the quarter about $25 million in margin.
And we continue to service those customers in Europe from production facilities around the world and incurred some pretty significant freight.
We've been able to somewhat normalize our inventory levels and while we do expect to incur some additional costs here in the second quarter as we look to try to resolve that issue it won't be quite at the same rate of negative impact that we saw in the first quarter.
But $25 million in the first quarter is what we absorbed.
Good.
Thanks I'll go back in queue.
Thanks James.
Larry Keusch of Morgan Keegan is online with a question.
Inc.</strong> Just a very quick housekeeping -- on the U.S.
Injectables Business you obviously mentioned the $40 million in revenues did that have any contribution to earnings? Not much.
Very low.
I guess this is a very low margin business for us.
Very low.
Inc.</strong> Yes great that's what I thought.
Okay just two questions for you guys.
First off is as we think about the future and how you guys think about the fractionation capacity for IVIG it is my understanding that you guys haven't shut down the Glendale facility as you move production into LA.
frac [Los Angeles fractionation] I just wanted to get some sense of kind of how you're thinking about that older facility what the plans are there? Okay.
Yes several aspects that -- obviously our long-term outlook for the growth of the plasma protein business continues to be very positive.
And then that's further augmented by the new product introductions including HyQ and new indications and then of course the bigger issue of Alzheimer's.
So this question that you asked Larry of capacity clearly has been front and center for us for a while.
We have flexibility within our global manufacturing footprint today between Vienna and Rieti our two European locations.
And then in LA we've kept old LA frac if you want to use that term in operation somewhat longer perhaps than we had earlier anticipated.
But I will tell you one of the things we're evaluating now given our projections of longer-term demand and to put ourselves in a position where we can be flexible for additional demand for new products such as HyQ and Alzheimer's and so on.
We're evaluating the merits of making investment to keep at least some of old LA frac in operation for an extended period of time.
Okay? The other thing I would say is that we also have and continue to evaluate the merits of a new Greenfield site at some point which candidly we think is inevitable.
In the coming years we spent a lot of time thinking about how we could do that on a modular basis.
But I think that both of those variables are things that we are now contemplating in this equation of long-term capacity.
Inc.</strong> Okay and Bob just on that one and then I got another quick one.
But it sounds like on LA frac at least old LA frac I should say it sounds like you haven't really committed any meaningful CapEx at this point although perhaps like there is some....
No we haven't.
But we just -- we likely will because if that is an older facility and if we're going to keep in production for the foreseeable future we're going to need to make some investments there but obviously there will be a nice return on those investments given the underlying demand and what we're trying to support here.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then the last question again sort of more strategic is you guys continue to do a great job with your cash generation obviously.
The free cash flow was up meaningful year-over-year.
Your debt-to-total cap is in that low double-digit range kind of 12-ish percent.
And you've been -- you've been sort of talking about business development and share repurchase for a while.
You're obviously doing some of the share repurchase but again just given the leverage ratios of the company and the free cash flow generation what's impeding you from doing more? In terms of more -- ? Inc.</strong> Either more BD or greater share repurchase.
Yes.
Well again Bob can comment on this.
I mean you're very familiar with our capital allocation framework.
That remains unchanged.
Frankly we would like to direct more dollars to business development opportunities.
We're pleased that we were able to close the Prism deal recently.
This is going to be a nice opportunity for us.
NEXTERONE could be I would say globally somewhere in the range of $150 million $200 million product at high margins.
And we need -- that's why I commented in my prepared comments today Larry on this.
I think this is the kind of deal that we did want to do more of.
Like the ApaTech deal we did last year.
I'd like to do a handful of these kinds of deals every year.
And I'd like to deploy more of our cash toward those kinds of things that can accelerate our growth forward.
And I think our OBD [ph] momentum actually is accelerating.
We got a number of deals in the hopper that we're evaluating.
But just a quick answer to your question as to what's constraining us is probably our discipline not to do bad deals.
And make sure we are very discerning in the kind of things that we pursue.
But I believe that those opportunities do exist.
I believe going forward we will do more of them and it will be again within framework that we've discussed with you many times.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And I do recognize that obviously a huge chunk of your cash is sitting overseas so I get that as well.
Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Larry.
Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank's on the line with a question.
It's actually Catherine for Kristen.
I just have a couple of quick questions.
On the slight increase in gross margins and the guidance can you just break down the different components how much of that is FX versus the others? Bob why don't you handle that there's a lot of...
Sure.
As we mentioned we did absorb within margin a pretty big hit related to the Castlebar issue.
The pension issue which we talked about last quarter does affect both margin and SG&amp;A.
So year-over-year that's a drag on margin.
We did see positive mix benefits and some of our higher margin product lines grew faster in the quarter including nutrition products we mentioned BioSurgery.
IVIG has slightly higher than average corporate margins so we did see some mix benefits that offset that.
The FX benefit I mentioned is a modest benefit as we talked about in the past.
We have a fair amount of natural hedge given our manufacturing footprint around the world and our -- beyond the ground nature of many of our operations and countries around the world.
So we have a fair amount of local expense we incurred and offset some of that.
We do some hedging at a corporate level for the major currencies.
And so any impact on FX tends to be fairly muted.
As emerging market currencies have appreciated though pretty significantly here over the last several months particularly Latin America some Eastern European and emerging Asia countries we do get a slight benefit from that because we do not hedge we do have local expenses but we tend not to hedge in those locations because it's difficult to make it cost effective.
But again it's a modest impact not significant.
Okay thanks.
And then on upcoming tenders in Europe for Recombinant can we see another shift like we did last year? No.
At this point there are no significant upcoming tenders in Europe on a magnitude of the U.K.
tender certainly.
A smaller tender later this year in Ireland is really the only one ...
[indiscernible] I think early but I think early 2013.
Yes and as we said in the past the vast vast majority of our global IV franchise is not subject to tenders.
Okay.
And then the last one in Anesthesia the unexpected reduction in inventory.
How should we look at the impact for the rest of the year? Well to say I mean we're working to finalize the fee-for-service agreement with the distributor that we mentioned.
And certainly to the extent we're successful in doing that which we expect we will be and we should see a normalization in volume as we move throughout 2011.
Okay.
Thank you.
Mid-single digit to Anesthesia growth I think for the rest of the year.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks Catherine.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs is on the line with a question.
Wanted to just come back to your comments on IVIG I think you've said that volume was up 20% against reported constant currency growth of 18% I'm assuming that that volume's for Baxter as a corporation can you maybe sort of articulate what you see is going on in the end-user market on a global basis maybe locate U.S.
and international? Are you seeing similar trends in the overall markets that you are in your business and your business is being  amplified by benefits from Octapharma? Or is it better from Octapharma contributing the bulk of the improvement in your business? Well I'll address that.
Our view is that the market in the U.S.
continues to be in the mid-single digits from an ongoing growth perspective and then markets outside the U.S.
growing higher single digits.
And as we look at the quarter and adjust for Octapharma and this WinRho effect that we talked about we're still looking at 9% growth for the IVIG franchise with the impact of some price from the touchup strategy we implemented in the back half of 2010.
So given that we're clearly growing faster than the market even adjusting for Octa we do feel like we've made good progress there.
Okay.
And then maybe a follow-up on the gross margin.
Clearly I think better than what most  people were looking for this quarter 51%.
And then you're sort of guiding to a slight improvement as we head to through the course of the year.
What are sort of the puts and takes on the gross margin line? Obviously currency has got the dollar has weakened over the course of the first quarter and actually throughout the year.
An underlying basis with the improvement in gross margin should the back half of the year be greater than what you're going to report because of currency? As I've mentioned the impact of currency is fairly modest.
But given where we're at today given the strength of many currencies versus the U.S.
dollar it would be a slight benefit going forward.
Yes we factored some of that into our guidance certainly but it's not going to be a material impact to us.
Okay.
And then lastly when you just revised the puts and takes this quarter on the Recombinant trend to tender with the inclusion of the Generic Injectables business it looks like the -- you're still sort of running the 4% to 5% organic growth rate which is certainly higher than what you've put up the past several quarters.
But I think a year ago on the same conference call you'd talked about revisiting sort of the long-range plans is there any update on when we might sort of hear more about your revised sort of long-term targets? Yes.
This is Bob Parkinson we're evaluating that.
We may do something before the end of the year.
Not as formal as perhaps we've done in the past maybe a conference call or something like that.
We're still not going to -- while we realize there's a desire to get some line of sight in terms of our longer-term outlook we clearly have recently as we do every year a very detailed long-range financial plan.
As I think I've commented previously though I think given some of the dynamics in the external environment the one thing I'm sensitive to is I don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
So I just wanted to continue to monitor the external environment both the economic environment as it relates to underlying demand for our products and certainly healthcare reform initiatives that are not as you know unique to the U.S.
And manifest themselves in a lot of ways in countries around the world.
So we are sensitive to a desire though for you all to get more visibility.
And like I say we may do something later in the year.
If we do it will be maybe an in-depth conference call or something like that so -- but we haven't made a final decision on that but we are sensitive to doing that before too long.
Okay that's great.
Thank you very much.
Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray is on the line with a question.
Hi.
Thanks for -- thanks for taking all of our questions this morning.
Just a follow-up on the Octa question and when they're coming back.
I wanted to just clarify first your guidance assumptions in the back half.
Has it been your assumption that they come back with the full supplies sort of bringing 11% shares' worth of product back to the market? Or is this something that you've expected that will go into your guidance as more of a slow build over Q3 and Q4? Well of course we don't really have a true line of sight into that.
I think given the nature of production of plasma proteins augmented by the fact that I think you know that some of the plasma suppliers to Octapharma have redirected their plasma and sold that to other fractionators including ourselves by the way.
I don't think it's practical matter.
There's a scenario it looks like turning on a light switch okay? But on the other hand we don't have any insight in terms of what they've been manufacturing over the last number of months in anticipation of kind of breaking the regulatory logjam for a lack of a better way to describe it.
So we've assumed retention of a little bit of that business in the second half but on a volume basis.
Matt that's probably the best I can do.
I mean at this stage I'm kind of speculating.
Okay and that's helpful.
And then the -- from the market on that same topic in the wake of the Octa being withdrawn from the market in Europe and U.S.
have you gotten the sense that hospitals tenders any of those things that's started being looked at or considered in a different way given the risk of having another supplier having a similar issue of customers looking at suppliers differently in the back of that event? Well this is a business that's going back many years.
As encountered on behalf of a number of the participants regulatory issues okay? It's part of the nature of the business when you're dealing with human proteins.
And every time there's an event like this I do think that customers evaluate and really assess the value of a high quality sustainable supplier.
And dial that into their thinking in terms of do they tender do they contract.
If they contract what's the terms of the contract and so on.
And I do think that the recent event with Octapharma not unique to the U.S.
I think around the world clearly has stimulated thinking about "Gee is there a way to contract with manufacturers in a way that we're not subject to the kind of volatility and risk in terms of supply?" That's just natural.
But I think at this stage most of that is kind of anecdotal we'll see how it plays out.
And one last follow-up on recombinant and the U.K.
tender there we've been sort of working through that analyzing that tender impact last year.
On the back of that -- first if you could remind us when we come out from underneath that comp? And then also on the back of that is that a market that's  in sort of the mid-single digits currently? Is it in the low single to mid- to upper when you start again performing at what's more like a market growth rate? That will be helpful.
Sort of like globalling Matt? Yes.
Yes.
Well yes I mean the U.K.
tender is the first part of your question and the time is fundamentally we come out of it in the third quarter I don't know exactly when on the comps...
No.
I think the full impact of the U.K.
tender in terms of patient loss really was the fourth quarter so really through the rest of this year we'll be working through that.
And really it won't be till 2012.
There are ratchets here there's ratchet down in the second half of the year on the comps.
Yes.
On the year-to-year comps which again -- and then on the global growth question again our current view is U.S.
market is the recombinant factory market is still growing in the mid-single digits and at a somewhat higher rate outside the U.S.
Great thanks.
Rick Weiss with Leerink Swann is on the line with a question.
This is Danielle in for Rick.
Just a follow-up on David's question on the gross margin.
Thinking longer term how quickly can you guys get back to sort of the 2009 52% plus level? And then following up on that what are the puts and takes that can get you there faster versus slower? I think as we've talked about in the past we continue to see opportunities to expand both gross and operating margins going forward.
The company generated significant improvement in both those metrics from 2004 to 2009.
The pace of which we're not going to able to match that as we go forward from this point but we do see opportunities to continue to improve that.
So without putting a timeline on it it is something that even in the midst of what you see as a difficult quarter related to the Castlebar issue we absorbed the pension expense increase and so on we still see the opportunity through growing our higher margin businesses faster to continue to drive some positive mix benefit there.
So going forward we will improve gross margins I do believe but I don't want to put a time frame on how fast getting back to 2009 levels.
The world was very different in 2009.
That's pre-U.S.
Healthcare Reform pre-austerity measures in Europe and so on.
So that's something we will continue to work through here and as Bob mentioned we'll think about providing some longer-term view on that perhaps later this year.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And just a quick follow-up on the Medical Products division can you talk about where you are with integrating Med Delivery with Renal? And sort of when we can expect to see a real impact to both the top and bottom line how quickly what level of impact? And then one quick Renal follow-up after that.
Okay.
Well on the Medical Products divs Danielle.
It is our belief that there will be -- there's not going to be a big ta-da moment there in terms of impact.
This is continuous improvement and getting back to the primary motivation of integrating those two businesses and combining them had more to with enhancing product development timelines and improving effectiveness in a number of areas.
It was not certainly exclusively and in fact not even primarily a cost reduction effort okay? In terms of structural cost and so on.
Now having said that there is meaningful opportunity there.
It's something that will impact us and rollout over time but I would not expect to see some big announcement there about a big chunk of structural cost that we're taking out and some kind of organizational announcement and so on.
It's going to be of an evolutionary nature not a dramatic nature like that.
But I will tell you over the next five years in a lot of different ways we believe the combination of those businesses and back to your earlier question about margin improvement will be helpful to bolster gross margin growth.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then on Renal can you give us any update -- I might have missed this earlier if you already gave it but on the Home Hemo [Home Hemodialysis] program? And then secondly PD what are you seeing as far as uptake in the U.S.
post the bundle? And any impact from -- we're hearing that maybe Frosenia [ph] has just brought their products in-house any impact there? Thank you so much guys.
Okay.
In the first finding we're going into the clinic with Home Hemo in midyear.
So I mean within a matter of months.
And then the second part of the question it was what? Why don't you guys take care of that.
Yes.
So you mentioned that the PD drivers in the U.S.
So absent the Frosenia [ph] issue I think we have previously mentioned that they have been a customer of ours in the U.S.
for PD and have taken the decision to transfer their patients on to their own therapy.
We've largely absorbed that issue here maybe a bit more in the second quarter absent that though we are seeing strong U.S.
PD patient growth as a result of the change in reimbursement here in 2011.
And are very pleased with that but we will have at least one more quarter of issue there as the last few patients are transferred over.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Our final question is from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
Thanks.
I have a question on the recombinant Factor VIII market in the U.S.
And just looking at PPTA data over the past 6 12 months on a rolling basis it looks like it's in sort of the low-single-digit range.
And I was just wondering if you could provide some updated thoughts on the state of that market? And whether you might anticipate some acceleration and perhaps touch on the macroeconomic activity in that market? Yes.
That PPTA data is pretty much in line with what we just commented about in terms of mid-single-digit market expansion.
Mary Kay why don't you expand on that.
Right.
Yes.
Yes Rajeev I think to get the 12-month rolling average in PPTA I believe is at around 4% which is in line with what we call mid-single-digit range 4% to 5%.
And remember too we did do the destocking in the back half of the year so PPTA growth would be impacted by that as well.
So the market net of our destocking is probably going up a little bit faster.
Okay.
And then is that about the rate you would expect to see going forward? Or is there at least...
Yes.
Yes.
No as Bob commented we believe that the global market is growing in the 6% to 8% range with the U.S.
growing at a slower rate more like 4% to 5% and international markets growing at a faster rate.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's second quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations of Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Sean.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Q2 2011 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thanks for calling in.
We're pleased this morning to announce financial results for the second quarter and also provide you with an update on our full year 2011 outlook.
As you all saw in the press release that was issued earlier this morning adjusted EPS of $1.07 per diluted share exceeded guidance for the quarter and increased 15% versus the prior year.
This performance was a result of double-digit sales growth operational leverage foreign currency favorability and the benefit from our ongoing share repurchase program.
Second quarter sales growth after adjusting for FX was 6% as growth improved on a sequential basis across multiple categories in BioScience.
Year-to-date sales growth again after adjusting for FX and the revenue adjustment in 2010 was 5% and EPS accelerated 10%.
While Bob will provide more details on Baxter's financial results for the first half of the year in just a few minutes as indicated in the press release issued this morning we have raised our full year sales guidance on a reported basis as well as our full year earnings guidance before special items.
While we're pleased with the improving fundamentals and enhanced financial performance as evidenced by our first half results I highlight that we continue to navigate through a challenging macro environment that's evolving on a global basis and continues to exert ongoing pressures on our business and the healthcare industry more broadly.
Having said that we're particularly vigilant in monitoring the external environment and remaining focused on accelerating future growth by leveraging the broad and diverse nature of our product portfolio our geographic reach and capitalizing on the unique opportunities for expansion that our new product pipeline affords.
In fact during the quarter we did achieve a number of milestones that reflect enhancements to our commercial operational and scientific effectiveness and I'll mention just a few.
For example the SIGMA Spectrum Infusion pump received the "Best in KLAS" award for smart pumps in the 2011 Top 20 Best in KLAS Awards for Medical Equipment &amp; Infrastructure report.
This award represents the aggregate opinions of healthcare executives purchasing managers and clinicians for more than 4 500 hospitals and reflects the high level of customer satisfaction with the Spectrum pump which scored the highest in overall performance reliability and delivery of technology.
We also completed the acquisition of Prism Pharmaceuticals and launched NEXTERONE the first and only ready-to-use premixed formulation of the antiarrhythmic agent amiodarone.
Given this drug is typically administered to patients in extremely time-sensitive situations the benefits of a ready-to-use premixed form allows for immediate use and reduces the potential risk of medication errors.
We believe this unique product satisfies unmet clinical needs offers an opportunity to expand the current market and has the potential for application in additional geographies outside the United States.
We're pleased that data from Baxter's Phase II CMI adult stem cell program was recently published in Circulation Research.
Results demonstrate that injection of the patient's own CD34+ adult stem cells into targeted sites in the heart have therapeutic benefits such as reduced angina episodes and improved exercise tolerance.
More than 850 000 individuals in the U.S.
experienced refractory angina associated with CMI and have not responded to other therapeutic options.
We look forward to moving into Phase III clinical trial later this year.
We also continue to be successful in driving differentiation of GAMMAGARD LIQUID by offering various dosage presentations enhancing delivery options and expanding the number of indications.
For example earlier in the quarter we introduced the first and only 30-gram dose vial for GAMMAGARD LIQUID in the U.S.
This new dosage form is the most frequently prescribed dose for primary immune deficiency patients and enhances user convenience and we're pleased with the rapid pace of customer adoption since the launch.
I've mentioned that FDA approval for GAMMAGARD LIQUID 10% Sub-Q is imminent.
We plan to launch Sub-Q in the U.S.
during the third quarter and participate in this fast-growing segment of the market.
We recently submitted the Biologics License Application to the FDA for approval of HyQ allowing for the enhanced subcutaneous administration of immunoglobulin with recombinant human hyaluronidase for patients with PID.
The submission is based on results from a Phase III trial which met both its primary and secondary endpoints.
We're currently in the process of preparing our submission for approval in Europe and Canada and expect to communicate final results later in the year.
As you all know Baxter is conducting Phase III clinical trials exploring the use of GAMMAGARD LIQUID as a therapy for 2 neurological conditions.
The first is a trial for the treatment of multifocal motor neuropathy or MMN.
We continue to be on track to complete the trial in the U.S.
and Canada later this year and submit for approval in 2012.
Additionally during the second quarter we received a positive opinion by the European Medicines Agency to include MMN as a new approved indication in all European member states.
This represents the first and only centrally licensed indication for MMN in Europe.
And finally we continue to advance our Phase III trial for Alzheimer's as we've now completed enrollment in our first Phase III trial with more than 360 patients.
With an 18-month follow-up period we currently expect to complete the trial by the end of 2012.
In addition we plan to initiate a second confirmatory trial before the end of this year.
As we've previously stated accelerating innovation is the cornerstone of our future success.
Given this important strategic imperative we expect R&amp;D spending to ramp in the second half of this year as we further advance our pipeline with continued development of hemophilia therapies including our longer-acting Factor VIII therapy and recombinant von Willebrand programs and initiate several clinical trials such as the second Phase III trial for Alzheimer's a Phase III adult stem cell trial for patients with CMI and also begin the first trial evaluating our home hemodialysis device.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on these programs and others during the Q&amp;A but we look forward to updating you on the achievement of additional R&amp;D milestones throughout the remainder of the year.
So with that I'd now like to ask Bob to review our second quarter financial results and also our guidance for 2011.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the quarter before turning to our revised financial outlook for 2011.
Starting with sales worldwide sales totaled $3.5 billion in the second quarter and advanced 11%.
Excluding foreign currency sales grew 6% which compares favorably to the guidance we've provided of 4% to 5%.
This is primarily the result of robust growth in plasma proteins and antibody therapies as well as better-than-expected vaccine revenues and the benefit of unplanned sales of approximately $20 million related to the U.S.
multisource generic injectables business divested in early May.
In terms of individual business performance beginning with BioScience.
Global BioScience sales of $1.6 billion increased 14% in the second quarter.
Excluding foreign currency BioScience sales increased 10% reflecting a sequential improvement in the growth rate of 6 percentage points versus growth in the first quarter of this year.
Within the product categories recombinant sales of $570 million grew 9%.
Excluding foreign currency sales improved sequentially on a global basis and increased 3% driven by improved growth outside the U.S.
Excluding the impact of the U.K.
tender which has now been substantially annualized recombinant growth was in mid-single digits globally and international growth was in high single digits.
Moving on to Plasma Proteins.
Sales in the quarter were $363 million and increased 16%.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency sales rose 11% due to strong demand particularly outside the U.S.
for FEIBA albumin and plasma-derived Factor VIII.
More than 70% of our plasma revenues are outside the U.S.
where growth on a constant currency basis was 20% and offset lower sales in the U.S.
The 6% decline in the U.S.
was driven by a short-term backorder situation for ARALAST and the impact of higher rebates on FEIBA due to a significant increase in patients reimbursed by Medicaid.
In antibody therapy sales of $381 million increased 23%.
Excluding foreign currency sales climbed 21% driven by robust demand.
This performance continues to reflect the success we've had with our commercial strategies and the benefit related to meeting volume previously served by Octapharma which for the quarter was an incremental $30 million to $40 million in sales.
Sales in regenerative medicine which includes our BioSurgery products totaled $147 million and increased 11%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 6% driven by double-digit growth of surgical sealants and hemostats.
This growth was partially offset by lower Actifuse revenues triggered by a temporary disruption in the channel resulting from a recent integration-related decision to transition from the ApaTech distributor model to primarily a direct sales model which is consistent with our current go-to-market strategy within the BioSurgery business.
Finally revenues in the other category which includes vaccines totaled $92 million increasing 21% versus the prior year.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 12% due to strong growth of FSME vaccine in Europe.
In Medical Products global sales in the second quarter totaled $2 billion reflecting an increase of 8% on a reported basis.
After adjusting for foreign currency sales increased 3% and after also adjusting for U.S.
multisource generic injectable divestiture sales growth was 5%.
Turning to the product categories.
Renal sales totaled $633 million and increased 8% on a reported basis.
Excluding foreign currency sales growth improved sequentially as PD growth globally accelerates the 5% due to continued momentum in patient gains in the U.S.
Latin America and Asia.
This performance was offset by expected loss of PD patients to another U.S.
service provider and lower HD revenues.
Sales in the Global Injectables category advanced 7% to $506 million and excluding foreign currency sales grew 3%.
Excluding the divestiture growth of this category was 10%.
Contributing to this performance was a very strong growth in our Contract Manufacturing and Compounding businesses as well as strong demand for MINI-BAGs.
IV Therapy sales totaled $452 million and rose 8%.
Excluding foreign currency sales were up 3% driven by low single-digit growth of IV solutions and double-digit growth in the U.S.
Nutrition business as a result of continued share gains related to competitor supply shortages.
Infusion System sales totaled $233 million reflecting growth of 8% and sales were up 5% excluding foreign currency.
Growth was driven by expanded placements in sales of the Spectrum pump which reached a new high in the quarter.
Finally anesthesia sales of $143 million increased 10% and excluding foreign currency sales grew 8%.
This performance was driven by improved demand which was somewhat offset by competitive pricing pressures for generic Sevoflurane.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin for the company was 51.9% in the second quarter which exceeded expectations and reflects a sequential improvement of 90 basis points versus the first quarter.
Compared to the prior year gross margin improved by 60 basis points as a result of mix improvements primarily driven by strong sales of high-margin vaccine and anesthesia products and a modest benefit from foreign exchange.
These items more than offset incremental costs associated with the Castlebar PD solution issue and the impact of manufacturing inefficiencies incurred in the Plasma business during 2010.
SG&amp;A totaled $765 million in the quarter and increased 10% versus the prior year period with the impact of foreign currency driving nearly half of the year-over-year growth.
We continue to aggressively manage general administrative and discretionary spending areas across the company while making select investments in a number of key promotional areas aimed at demand creation and new product launches.
In addition we continue to recognize the incremental savings associated with the actions we announced in January which were offset by incremental pension expense and the pharmaceutical drug tax.
R&amp;D spending accelerated in the second quarter to $239 million representing an increase of 9% in the quarter as we continue to advance our pipeline and fund many of the exciting programs we've discussed with you over the last several years.
The operating margin in the quarter was 23.5% reflecting an 80 basis point improvement both sequentially and over the prior year period.
Interest expense was $15 million compared to $25 million last year.
This reduction is primarily the result of a benefit from higher rate debt and maturity in the second half of 2010 and higher interest income.
Other totaled $13 million this quarter compared to $3 million last year with the increase driven primarily by the impact of foreign exchange on balance sheet positions and noncontrolling interest.
The tax rate was 21.7% in the quarter 180 basis points higher than last year's rate of 19.9% and is the continued result of a change in earnings mix between higher tax and lower tax jurisdictions.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted EPS increased 15% to $1.07 per diluted share which exceeded our guidance of $1.01 to $1.03 per share.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $632 million compared to $783 million in the prior year period.
The reduction year-over-year is the result of an increased outflow related to working capital and $87 million in payments for the infusion pump recall and business optimization actions we announced earlier this year.
The working capital outflow is driven by higher receivables particularly in Europe and increased inventory levels to meet anticipated demand for infusion pumps and PD solutions given the Castlebar situation.
In addition over the last 6 months we have ramped internal plasma collections and purchased significant quantities of third-party plasma.
DSO ended the quarter at 58 days which is higher than last year by 4 days.
This is largely due to the challenging macro environment and our international country mix as DSO in the U.S.
remains at approximately 30 days.
Inventory turns of 2.5 are comparable to the prior year.
This is primarily driven by improvement in BioScience versus the second quarter of 2010 offset by low returns in Medical Products.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were $210 million versus $237 million in the prior year period and are also trending below 2010 on a year-to-date basis.
And lastly during the second quarter we repurchased approximately 8 million shares of common stock for $478 million.
Through the first 6 months of the year we have repurchased 21 million shares for $1.1 billion or on a net basis 14 million shares for approximately $824 million in line with our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the third quarter and full year 2011.
First for the full year we now expect earnings of $4.27 to $4.32 per diluted share.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we expect full year sales growth excluding foreign currency of 3% to 4%.
We currently expect foreign currency to benefit sales growth by approximately 2 points.
Therefore we expect reported sales growth of approximately 5% to 6%.
This outlook includes the first half sales of approximately $60 million related to the U.S.
multisource Generic Injectables business and $60 million to $70 million of incremental sales related to Octapharma.
The impact of these nonrecurring items depresses our second half sales growth by approximately 2 points.
For the full year we continue to expect gross margin in the 51% to 51.5% range with a modest improvement over the gross margin rate in 2010 of 51.1%.
We now expect both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D to grow in mid-single digits for the year.
The projected increase in the growth rate is primarily due to foreign currency impacts and a ramp in R&amp;D spend in the second half relative to our original guidance.
We expect operating margin to improve modestly year-over-year.
We now expect interest expense of approximately $60 million to $70 million and other expense which includes noncontrolling interest to also total approximately $60 million to $70 million.
Given our mix of earnings we expect our tax rate to approach 21.5% and finally we expect a full year average share count of approximately 575 million shares which assumes approximately $1 billion in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect cash flow from operations of approximately $2.8 billion.
This includes a 2011 pension contribution of $150 million and an outflow of approximately $300 million related to the execution of a COLLEAGUE consent order.
Now to expand on full year sales assumptions for each of the businesses.
First on a constant currency basis we expect low single-digit sales growth for medical products.
Excluding the impact of the generic injectables divestiture sales growth is expected to be mid-single digits.
Within the product categories there is no material change from our previous guidance.
We continue to expect renal sales to grow in low single digits anesthesia sales to grow in low to mid-single digits Infusion System sales to be approximately flat and IV Therapy sales to grow in mid-single digits.
In addition we expect global injectable sales to increase in low single digits.
Excluding the generics divestiture we expect sales in this category to increase 10% to 12%.
For BioScience we now expect sales excluding foreign currency to grow in the 5% to 6% range which is at the higher end of our prior guidance.
For the Recombinant business we now expect sales growth for the full year to be in low single digits.
Second we expect plasma proteins sales to increase in high single digits and Antibody Therapy sales to increase approximately 10%.
Our current guidance assumes a modest benefit in the third quarter related to Octapharma as we currently assume that they will return to the U.S.
market by the fourth quarter.
As a reminder due to year-over-year sales comparisons related to Octapharma we expect Antibody Therapy sales growth to moderate in the back half of 2011.
Third we expect regenerative medicine sales to grow in the low to mid teens and finally we expect the other category within BioScience to decline approximately 10% reflecting the better-than-expected sales in the second quarter and the difficult comparison from pandemic revenues generated in the first quarter of 2010.
For the third quarter as we mentioned in our press release we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.07 to $1.09 and sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 3% to 4%.
Based on our outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to increase in the 6% to 7% range reflecting a 3 percentage point benefit from currency.
Thanks and now I'll open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
I wanted to come back first to the financial guidance then Bob Parkinson ask you a product-related question.
As you go through kind of the numbers for the second quarter and the first half of the year then look to the back half of the year particularly on the gross margin it looks as though for the balance of the year you're sort of saying that things will be consistent with where they were in the first half.
Could you maybe walk us through some of the items that positively affected gross margin in the quarter that you're thinking may not recur in the second half? It sounds like business trends by and large are improving from a top line perspective and why we wouldn't then see that flow through to the P&amp;L? Sure David.
So a couple things.
We mentioned one of the areas of outperformance in the second quarter was the vaccine business.
That is a high-margin business for us.
The FSME product in particular is primarily a seasonal vaccine.
So the second quarter is by far the peak.
In the back half of the year the contribution of FSME to our top line is much much smaller than it is in the second quarter so the positive benefit we saw in the margin in the second quarter won't repeat there.
Recall that anesthesia underperformed in Q1 related to finalization of a distributor agreement in the U.S.
which we did execute in the second quarter.
We saw some catch up there again on some higher margin product and so that was a bit exaggerated in the second quarter.
And then FX we did get a slight benefit to margin related to foreign exchange in the second quarter as the dollar weakened against the euro and many other currencies particularly emerging and developing markets.
In the back half of the year given recent events that are going on with the U.S.
debt crisis and the situation in Europe we've seen the dollar strengthen a bit.
So we're not assuming that modest FX benefit.
It's a margin in the back half of the year.
Other than that though the underlying dynamics of our higher margin products growing faster and the mix benefits we see persisting.
And adjusting for some of the items I've mentioned we do see some improvement operationally in margin in the back half versus the front half in the neighborhood of 40 to 50 basis points somewhat masked again by the dynamics that I mentioned.
Okay and then if you look at growth outside the United States this quarter you highlighted that in your prepared remarks almost every single business showed a sequential improvement in year-over-year growth rates.
Can you maybe help us understand where that's coming from especially when you square that up against some of the challenging dynamics that are happening in Europe and what we hear about pricing trends in Europe across for many of your pharmaceutical peers? Yes I would -- this is Bob Parkinson David.
A number of pieces to that.
The reality is the European markets continue to be challenging particularly the more developed Western markets.
But having said that we continue to benefit significantly by emerging developing markets China Brazil and so on.
Also generally speaking the plasma proteins across the board including developed Europe were very strong in the second quarter.
So it's tough to generalize regarding all markets outside the U.S.
We are pleased by the overall strength and growth of our sales outside the U.S.
but it is really -- the dynamics are very different between developed Europe which continues and we anticipate it's going to continue to be challenging versus our expanding investment and presence in emerging and developing markets which consistently has been a growth priority for us.
And then lastly could you just update us on where you are with respect to IVIG supply? I think on the last call and on the fourth quarter call you talked a little bit about supply constraint and at one point I think you were on pretty significant back order in the first quarter.
Can you maybe sort of give us some sense as to where we stand on that? Our position today is much better than what it was I think at the time of the last call.
But having said that we're really not flush with inventory right now as a result of the Octapharma situation.
And again my comment a second ago particularly in growth outside the U.S.
meeting demand we're doing everything we can to do that.
So while our situation David has improved dramatically it's still not flush.
And we're continuing to monitor that very closely throughout the rest of the year particularly in view of some of the anticipated approval stand that we're going to get.
So we continue to put everything behind making sure we have adequate supply.
David let me also add just as we mentioned last quarter that as long as Octapharma is out there could be periods where there'd be temporary shortages or we'd be in a backorder situation for throughout the rest of this year.
Mike Weinstein of JP Morgan.
I wanted to maybe just dive in a bit more to your thoughts on the back half of the year.
You're coming off of a strong quarter.
It did sound like there were some one-time items that might have helped out a little bit but still underlying a very strong quarter.
But you didn't change your constant currency revenue growth outlook for the year which is 3% to 4% and you are assuming some slowdown in the back half.
I think it would be helpful to get a sense of where you think you might be conservative in that forecast as part of it that you're assuming that Octapharma does make some inroads back into the market and that's why you're being a bit conservative.
Are there other parts of your business where you are being conservative? Or am I just pushing it and 3% to 4% is the right type growth level to be thinking about right now? Let me just -- I'll turn this over to Bob because there's a lot of moving pieces.
You're right the Octapharma piece that you mentioned Mike is in fact part of it but it's just one of a number of pieces so I'm going to let Bob kind of walk you through.
Yes.
Starting out first with -- on the constant currency guidance recall that some multi-sourced generic business is out and so that is driving about 1.5 points in the back half of drag on our growth rate as we work through trying to annualize that out over the next 4 quarters.
So I think that's a key one.
We are assuming while Octa is back in Europe at the moment and we are assuming that they'd come back in the U.S.
in the fourth quarter as well.
So that takes another 0.5 point or so out of the growth rate.
So I think adjusting for just those 2 items you're kind of back in the 5%-ish range and I think that's consistent with...
With FSME as well.
Yes and FSME given the seasonality that we talked about earlier.
So the way -- as we adjust for some of these impacts and look at the growth rate it's pretty consistent through the quarters.
Mike just to put it into perspective first half growth constant currency was 5%.
Second half we're guiding to about 2% to 3% to get to our full year of 3% to 4% and as Bob mentioned that's 2 points of the generic injectable business and the assumption that Octapharma is back.
And we're pretty conservative with our assumptions there that we cede that share back to them.
And also I'd point out that in the back half of last year plasma proteins was particularly strong.
You might recall first half last year plasma was down about 8% and in the second half of the year it was up in call it the 7% to 8% range.
So we have a difficult comp in the Plasma Protein business as well.
Understood that's very helpful.
Let me follow up on just a couple pipeline items if I can.
The first would be and if you talked about it I apologize; I missed it.
The home hemodialysis program is there an update there? Yes we will start our clinicals I'll just say in the coming weeks so very soon.
Okay and no change to the timelines there.
No.
And the other pipeline would be the recombinant von Willebrand factor.
Have you started the clinicals there? We have not started yet Mike but we plan on starting the Phase III in the second half of the year on track with our original expectations there.
Okay and then last question Bob I just want to make sure we're on the same page on your thoughts on acquisitions and capital allocation.
Is it still the likelihood that any deals we see at Baxter are going to be smaller deals similar in size to ApaTech? Yes there's no change on that front than what we've messaged.
There's a number of active PD deals that we're currently looking at but these are the kinds of things that are consistent with what we've kind of messaged so the kind of things you would expect.
So I would tell you we would expect certainly we hope that we'll do a couple things in the second half of the year.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America is on the line with a question.
So first a question on Sub-Q which you said was imminent in terms of a launch here.
How much are you assuming for Sub-Q in your back half guidance? Is that a major contributor? And maybe just help us frame the opportunity and launch strategy.
And then finally one specific point on Sub-Q.
We've heard from some doctors that your Sub-Q product has a lower injection site adverse event rate than the competition as per your clinical trials.
So I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that as well and the degree to which you think that might help the launch.
Bob why don't you take the first part of the question? And Mary Kay the second? Sure.
So given that we're very excited about the Sub-Q launch we think that again it's going to allow us to participate in a fast-growing segment of the market.
But as we indicated given our current inventory situation we'll balance how we penetrate that market with serving existing customers here in the back half as we work to get our inventory situation back up to more normal levels.
So it's a very nice opportunity for us and will be a growth driver going forward but I wouldn't say that it's a significant contributor in our assumptions at the moment to the back half.
And on the infusion site infection rate Bob we do have a lower rate.
I think as you saw the data in our posters that have been presented we're at about 2.5% which is significantly lower to other Sub-Qs on the market that are in the 60% range.
We believe that that's really due to the purity and the tolerability of our product.
And obviously we do believe that that could be a potential competitive advantage to our product versus the competition.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I just wondered if we could go through some of those puts and takes on the top line this particular quarter that you were talking about earlier and I'll rattle off what I heard.
Obviously Octa $30 million to $40 million.
You talked about I think a $20 million benefit in unplanned sales from business to be divested in the regenerative line some channel disruption I was wondering if you could quantify that.
And U.S.
Plasma Proteins and ARALAST you talked about a temporary negative I believe.
Could you quantify that? And then any other of the sort of smaller puts and takes in the quarter that you ran through? Why don't you expand on that Bob? Yes sure.
So I mean consistent with the Octa amount we've been talking about the generics injectable I said we divested in early May so we didn't have the month of April in the numbers we didn't expect.
The channel disruption in ApaTech for the quarter is less than $10 million so a smaller base in the BioSurgery regenerative medicine line so it does affect the growth rate but not a huge number overall.
And ARALAST similarly less than $10 million of an impact in the quarter due to the back order situation.
And just one other comp I'd also mention is the U.K.
tender.
Although we basically annualize that we did have a small impact in the quarter.
I'd put it in the $5 million range.
And WinRho also affected us in Antibody Therapies slightly but not material.
Okay so those are the major puts and takes in terms of one-time items in the quarter.
Yes.
Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank is on the line with a question.
Just to make sure the sales guidance that you had provided by product line that was all on a constant currency basis the growth rates.
Correct.
Okay and then can you just walk through maybe the interest expense and other change? Because both of those change relative to your last updates.
Is that just kind of foreign exchange on the other expense line item? I know that bounces around a bit.
Foreign exchange does bounce around a little bit but also the noncontrolling interest in the sundry line as well.
As we look at that primarily relates to the SIGMA relationship and as they've ramped up production on their end we own 40% and consolidate them in our results up above and have to adjust for their 60% ownership through the sundry line.
So as actively is ramped up that becomes a bigger number on the expense side for us in sundry.
On the interest front we took a strategy in the middle of last year to move to slightly more floating rate debt than fixed through interest rate swaps.
So we're benefiting from that and that's driving some of the interest income.
But also in the first half of this year we have collected some late interest on outstanding receivables in Spain.
These are hard to predict because there's a whole legal process you have to go through.
So it tends to be lumpy and we did collect $5 million to $10 million in the front half of the year related to that which we're not necessarily counting on in the back half of the year to repeat.
And then just on SIGMA can you just maybe help us get an appreciation for just how far through you think you've locked in some of the pumps that are still outstanding? And just kind of how much is outstanding in the field for COLLEAGUE? Mary Kay you want to -- or Bob? Sure I'll jump in and Mary Kay you can.
So at this point we're fairly far along with the discussions with our customer base approaching 3/4 of the customer base has indicated a firm interest in either staying with us or moving to a competitor and we continue to be in a position of the majority of those staying with us.
So we're pleased with the progress there.
SIGMA continues to do very well on the production side providing the adequate level of pumps for us to be very competitive in offering the free pump to replace the existing COLLEAGUE.
So getting pretty far down the track and pretty consistent with the outcomes that we had expected both within our reserve and what we've been indicating up to this point.
You had an option to acquire the company.
Does that expire at any particular point in time? I believe it's middle of 2012.
Any thoughts there on intent? That's something we continue to evaluate and we've got a bit more time here.
Again we're very pleased with the performance of the pump.
We've mentioned earlier the award that it was given and recognized as one of the best pumps on the marketplace and we'll continue to evaluate the next step going forward.
Last and a quick one.
You had mentioned updating the long-range plan potentially this year.
Are you guys still planning on hosting a conference call? Or is that something to expect next year? Yes Kristen this is Bob Parkinson.
We haven't really decided yet.
I think this question came up on last quarter's call.
We realize the curiosity on your collective behalf and so on but as I commented previously and then actually in my formal comments this morning I mean the external environment continues to be challenging.
Number of things are settling out.
And I think until we get a little more visibility on that we're not going to be forthcoming.
But we do plan on setting something up before long so we'll let you all know.
Larry Keusch is on the line with a question of Morgan Keegan.
Inc.</strong> First on margins I'm wondering Bob if you can quantify what Castlebar the impact of Castlebar was in the gross margin.
And then as I think about the second half of the year in your gross margin specifically it would seem to me that your Plasma Protein business obviously is an extremely high fixed cost business.
And as you start to ramp that up increasing collection as you indicated I suspect your fractionation capacity is running pretty full at this point given your attempts to increase your inventory.
And then you mentioned that you've purchased plasma as well as frozen plasma at I assume attractive prices.
So at some point I would think that that has to start to come through the margin.
So I'm wondering if you could just talk a little bit about those 2 things.
Sure.
So Castlebar in the quarter was $15 million impact negative impact to margin in the second quarter after $25 million in the first quarter.
So we are working it down a bit.
We do expect another $10 million to $15 million of impact in the third quarter and hope to be running a normal operation by the fourth quarter still yet to be fully resolved in Europe but that's our assumption at this point.
As it relates to plasma we have been running very well in ramping up both collections and production to meet not only the Octa demand that became available but also strong underlying dynamics both in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
In terms of dynamics going forward you mentioned the purchase of third-party plasma.
So we purchased both plasma collected by third parties and plasma directly from frozen plasma directly from Octapharma.
But as you might imagine our internal cost to collect is actually below what a third-party would do because we feel like we are the most efficient collector in the industry given the BioLife network that we've set up over the years.
And so we actually are incurring a slight negative related to running that plasma through our operation.
We really just purchased the first bolus here in the second quarter.
There'll be additional purchases both third-party and from Octa in the third and fourth quarter of this year.
So actually over the next 6 to 9 months we'll be working that through our manufacturing network and putting that product into the marketplace and again that will be a slight negative impact as we work that product through.
But given the demand and the inventory situation we felt it was the right thing to do for us to put us in the best position to service customers going forward.
The other thing that I would add to Bob's comments Larry your observation's right.
As we utilize existing capacity we do get favorable absorption on both collection and fractionation.
But as you know and I commented the last quarter our current plans are now to leave old L.A.
[ph] frac in operation for an extended period of time to meet the demand.
But in order to do that there will be some costs going forward associated with that that were not earlier planned either.
So that in addition to the comments that Bob just made it would be an offset to the improved efficiencies in terms of capacity utilization.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
So when you sort of net out the positive variances that you had in the 2Q and you think about the increased volume coming through on IVIG and other plasma proteins in the second half how should we be thinking about just the progression of gross margin? Well as I mentioned earlier operationally we do see some improvement in the 40 to 50 basis point range in the second half versus the first half.
But the benefit we saw from the mix related to vaccines and anesthesia in the second quarter and to FX we're not counting on those 3 in the back half so those tend to offset the underlying operational benefit that we're talking about here and that's why we didn't change the margin guidance for the back half.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And then just lastly just any thoughts on what you think the U.S.
and OUS market growth is currently for IVIG? How you're looking at that? And with Octa now out in Europe what sort of observations are you seeing relative to how they're behaving out there? Our outlook in terms of market growth really isn't any different than what we've communicated kind of mid-single digits in the U.S.
and higher single digits OUS.
Larry so our view in that regard hasn't changed.
Relative to Octa's reentry it's speculative and so I'm not going to speculate on that.
Rajeev Jashnani is on the line with a question of UBS.
Just following up on the last question.
I was wondering if you could perhaps just reconcile the additional purchases of plasma with Octapharma as well as some of the third parties with respect to their return trajectory.
That would seem to imply it's somewhat measured but I was wondering if you could provide some perspective on that.
Yes I mean I'd hate to speculate but I think the facts are that clearly more product more raw plasmas become available in the market over the last 9 months basically.
But what we don't know is what they'd continue to collect themselves and how much they'd process.
So again I would simply be speculating.
At this point what we really were focused on is ramping up the both the collections and potentially accessing this third-party plasma in order to ensure that we had product available to meet what has turned out to be very significant demand for our product in the 20% range here in the last couple of quarters.
And so that's really the approach we've taken and anything else I'd say would be speculation.
And if I could just follow up and perhaps you could also share some perspective on how you've thought about the accounts that you've selected and perhaps the patients that you've selected with the Antibody Therapy given some tightness in the market and just how you thought about that in terms of patients that -- or excuse me accounts that may be somewhat stickier than others? Yes we certainly focused a bit more on the U.S.
versus Europe in terms of the Octa demand gap that occurred when they went out of the marketplace and given the touch up pricing exercise we went through last year with the U.S.
customer base we feel very good about the position we're in with the customers we have and we're very focused on continuing to grow those relationships.
I think as we go forward here with the Sub-Q launch and HyQ and hopefully in 2012 we'll have further opportunity to be even more selective.
But from a -- we certainly have focused on trying to avoid particularly price-sensitive accounts in the U.S.
and outside the U.S.
as we've looked to fulfill some of the demand needs in the marketplace.
Mike Matson is on the line with a question from Mizuho Securities.
Just wondering on the NEXTERONE product that you acquired can you maybe comment on to what degree that contributed to revenue in the quarter? And then just I guess the more important part of the question would be how big is that market opportunity currently? Yes I mean the contribution was -- we just launched the product.
There was virtually no contribution to the results in Q2.
Now our outlook for that product the initial reception is very good and I don't know if we've quantified when we did the deal Mary Kay what we think in the long-term projections.
It's material.
Yes.
I mean given the fact that it's a premixed form we are out with a price premium on the product which will help expand with the current market potential as well as we're looking at additional geographies to launch in.
We pegged the market opportunity at about $150 million to $200 million globally.
Okay that's helpful.
And then you obviously had strong gross margins this quarter.
It looks like you are getting back relatively close to kind of the recent peak of around 53% that you saw in 2009.
Is there any reason that you couldn't in the long long run go well beyond sort of that low 50s range maybe in the mid 50s range or even the high 50s? Well look I think the big driver long-term Mike is the timely and successful launch of our pipeline now as it comes to fruition.
Because obviously and I'm generalizing now but most of the new products that we've invested in will generate higher gross margins than our overall existing portfolio by design.
And so if you look out over the next 5 years I think the most significant driver in GP appreciation will really be associated with successful new product launches.
Okay and then finally just given the presentation of some of the early data on Biogen Idec's longer-acting Factor VIII product this summer I was wondering if you had any updated thoughts on kind of how that product stacks up against your existing product and kind of what you've got in your pipeline for your longer-acting product.
I mean I don't know that our views change from what we've communicated previously.
Obviously it's still early on the Biogen Idec trials limited number of patients.
But already we know that in terms of frequency of dosing it's been reduced I think in terms of the current expectation versus the original goal.
So already the gap and therefore the added utility of extended half-life has already been shortened significantly even though it remains very much in the early stages of the clinical development.
So we've talked about that before.
I don't know that there's anything new there.
We continue to believe the evidence by our own internal products that there is an opportunity for longer shelf life or longer half-life products but still early.
Mary Kay do you want to add to that? Mike I would just add there was no surprises in the data that we saw and we expect to enter our Phase I clinical trial here before the end of the year.
Okay and then just one final question.
Given the increase in your receivables days particularly outside the U.S.
and I guess the comment in the Q&amp;A about the Spanish I guess receivables is there any risk that you'd have to write down any of this money that you're owed from some of these countries with fiscal issues? Well yes I mean I think that risk is out there for all of us given the current situation.
But historically while the governments have paid on a longer timeline in Spain Portugal Greece and Italy they have paid.
I mean Greece I think is a bit more of an acute situation and we did take a charge in the second quarter of last year to recognize the valuation on the bonds we received in lieu of payment at that time.
So that's a risk we monitor very closely.
We worked very closely with the local teams.
In some countries like Italy there is an ongoing factory program that we in the industry take advantage of so we're less exposed there.
So again I think that is an inherent risk that we're dealing with and monitoring very closely and we are seeing a bit of slippage there in the DSO.
That is one of the drivers.
But I'd also tell you of that 4 days FX as the euro has appreciated over the last year that tends to drive the DSO up just based on how the calculation is done.
So FX in and of itself is contributing a bit of that 4-day increase.
David Lewis of Morgan Stanley is on the line with a question.
Just a quick question here for Bob.
On U.S.
Plasma Proteins it was a little weaker than we expected in the quarter.
I guess my question is given the IVIG stabilization and what I would imagine would be U.S.
stabilization in your Antibody Therapy business I guess I was surprised to see Plasma Proteins being a little weaker.
And I wonder is that simply utilization of albumin? Or is that pricing getting a little softer within that segment? Yes I can take that David.
First of all internationally Plasma Proteins was up 20%.
So very very strong.
I think as Bob mentioned in the prepared remarks ARALAST we were on a backorder situation which was temporary in nature and we are seeing no impact to user demand given the reconstitution device that we are providing an alternative for our patients with going forward.
So that is a result here as we go forward.
Also in FEIBA I would mention that sales were down in the U.S.
close to 10%.
Really we've seen a significant increase in Medicaid patients.
I think going back a couple years our Medicaid population on FEIBA was in call it the 40% to 50% range and now that's ramped up to about 60%.
And given healthcare reform and the increase we're seeing in Medicaid rebates that had a significant impact on our overall FEIBA sales in the U.S.
That was really what happened in the quarter.
It was more U.S.
focused and on those 2 products FEIBA and ARALAST.
And Mary Kay maybe as a follow-up on the Medicaid side.
I mean since healthcare reform and the implications on pharma what have the changes been in terms of access under the 340B Program across the organization? On 340B we are seeing more hospitals elect to be 340B.
As you know that was part of our healthcare reform impact that we took last year and that will grow as our 340B sales grow going forward but that's pretty much in line with our expectations.
Okay.
And just one last question internationally.
There was some stabilization there but can you update us on any specific tender processes either won or lost in the last 3 to 6 months on OUS recombinants? We did have some wins in the second quarter.
It was I would say in the $10 million to $15 range in terms of international sales.
We wouldn't provide what countries those were.
Rick Wise with Leerink Swann is on the line with a question.
Bob both of you have talked about the Med Products integration.
Where are we in the process of completing that? Will we see at some point operating margin benefits? And Bob you mentioned the offset this quarter from pension and I missed the second point but is there a point when those factors those drags go away and we get a net benefit? Let me take the first part.
Bob Hombach will take the second part Rick.
Yes I think some of the operational leverage that I commented on my prepared comments was really associated with early-stage efficiencies derived by the Medical Products integration.
But as I think I've commented previously these are benefits that are going to be incurred over time.
It will be more evolutionary in nature.
It will be material but there's not going to be a big event or a big pop where you'd see it but we already are getting efficiencies which as I said was the basis of my comment.
And those are going to continue out over I think a multiple year period of time.
Bob will you take the second question? Yes so within the issues that I highlighted we talked about the benefits we are getting from the actions we announced back in January being offset by both pension and the pharmaceutical drug tax particularly in SG&amp;A.
So that's the other big one that's impacted us this year.
Right and I wanted to follow up on just one other point back to the actually to FX on the new product front.
I wanted to make sure I understood how big the Sub-Q opportunity is in your mind as you launch and what the incremental impact could be.
I've heard a variety of estimates of how big Sub-Q is as a percentage of the total market.
I'd be curious to hear that.
And maybe just a little more follow-up on the home hemo side Bob.
Can you help us understand what the delay has been? Is it a technology issue? Has it been securing IRB approvals to start the trial? And can you give us any more color on the trial itself? How long it's going to take to complete and possible timelines to approval just to update us? Let me jump on the second question.
Mary Kay you can maybe address the first in response to Rick's question.
There really hasn't been a significant delay on the HHD from what the expectations we've set all along.
I mean this is a complex system a new system that's being developed and there's always challenges on the timetable.
But actually we've been very pleased with the pace of development with our partner DEKA to get to the point as I said we'll be starting the clinicals very shortly in the U.S.
which is basically in line with -- so no significant deviation from what we've messaged from the start.
And because it is a totally new system and not one that's an adaptation or modification to an existing system you clearly want to have a high confidence level on all operating aspects of the system.
Even though it's a clinical trial you're putting a patient on the system and we want to be as confident as we can be that we've addressed all the issues.
So as much as anything Rick I think it's about being cautious and disciplined and rigorous about how we do this.
But again just to reinforce I mean we have not incurred a meaningful deviation from the timetable that we've communicated from the start.
I don't know if you want to add to that Mary Kay or address the first part of the question or both.
Sure.
I'd also add Rick that we are in the process of identifying and selecting patients for the HHD trial which as Bob mentioned we're going to start in the coming weeks.
It is a trial that includes 24 patients.
It's a 10-week trial.
We expect it'll take about 6 months to complete the trial.
Let me just add to that and maybe just a higher level of perspective on this aside from the timing of the clinical trial.
We continue to be if anything even more encouraged about the opportunity that exists with the whole area of home dialysis whether its PD or HHD.
I think this is one where the external environment that we talk about all the time is presenting challenges.
It's an area that provides a significant opportunity for us because whether it's lower cost enhanced patient convenience and we believe particularly in the case of the home HHD enhanced clinical outcomes this is a product that I think is it will benefit and a therapy that will benefit by the external environmental pressures and changes.
So we continue to be very encouraged by that.
Okay Mary Kay back to you then.
Yes on the Sub-Q question Rick we estimate today that the global market's anywhere in the range of $5 billion to $6 billion for IVIG.
And today the Sub-Q market has about call it 7% to 8% share of that global market.
Remember that Sub-Qs are really approved for use in primary immune deficiency and primary immune deficiency represents about 25% of the overall global market.
And within PID today about 30% of the usage is Sub-Q.
So you can kind of draw your own conclusions on the size of that market and the potential for Sub-Q and HyQ going forward.
And you all know this the constraints to expansion of the Sub-Q segment as much as anything has to do with the administration complexities and inconvenience incurred by patients in terms of multiple injection sites and so on which then of course gets to the heart of our HyQ program and our recent regulatory submission in that regard.
So again our longer-term view and you all know this is that when that gets approved it will be an expander to the Sub-Q segment significantly.
Got you.
And just a tiny follow-up.
The Sub-Q launch is reflected in your numbers and on the home hemo I forget have you said to us when you hope to get approval actual final approval and launch? Yes Sub-Q will launch in Q3 and that's included in our guidance.
And in terms of HHD Rick we expect to get CE Mark next year in Europe in 2012.
We will have to do another trial that we're planning to do in Canada.
The Canadian trial as well as the U.S.
trial we're doing here will be used to support a nocturnal indication filing in 2013 in the U.S.
Our next question comes from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
I got just a follow-up on one of the other topics you were just talking about Sub-Q.
Just Bob to be clear and Mary Kay you mentioned a planned launch in Q3 for Sub-Q.
Without approval in hand you've been talking about this as being imminent for a while.
Can you maybe just provide a little color on your level of confidence on Sub-Q? And then I've got a couple of follow-ups.
Well look it's not a guarantee until you get the approval.
I think we're very confident we'll get approval soon.
And "soon" and "imminent" means like very soon and very imminent.
But until you have it you don't have it and that's the best I can do.
Okay that's helpful.
Okay I realize it's tough to predict I think the FDA.
The trends in the pump business just a follow-up on how things are going in infusion systems I saw some strengths relative to our estimates in the quarter and yet you're still looking for flat growth this year.
I think last quarter you said maybe flat to down.
So I guess 2 questions here.
Is this a modest improvement in outlook? Or is it that you're just really holding the line on outlook given what's the process you're going through with COLLEAGUE? A big piece of it is and Bob and Mary Kay can add to this is the comps because we launched SIGMA in the second half of last -- or at least the significant ramp-up.
So as much as anything the guidance and percentage increase in the second half is more associated with the strength last year.
Of course any time you're launching a product you kind of get a bolus effect upfront.
And so I think Bob and Mary Kay would you add anything to that? No I think that we had the strongest quarter this quarter that we've had.
We had a strong back half last year.
So the growth rate I think will be moderated and so...
I think the key takeaway on this as Bob commented earlier is that the device is being very well received in the marketplace and we're very pleased with that.
So we continue to make very good progress in converting the COLLEAGUE base too soon [ph].
Okay.
And then one on recombinants similar I guess but going the other way.
3% constant currency growth in Q2 2% in the first half.
Comps getting significantly easier in this case in the back half.
Does your low single-digit outlook contemplate any other potential risks to the back half macro or OUS market-related and so on? And then maybe just looking beyond the back half is low single the right the number for that market? Or do we see some moderation and recovery going forward? Yes a couple things Matt.
I'd say starting with the U.S.
I mean I think if you look at the rolling 12-month data on PPTA that the growth rate has moderated in the U.S.
across the board basically.
And so we're sort of in line with that in the U.S.
Outside the U.S.
we are anticipating given the results of the Australia tender which was recently announced where we will not be one of the 2 providers for recombinant Factor VIII going forward.
There's a 12-month transition period so there's a little bit of uncertainty about how this moves forward.
We do expect a negative impact in the back half of this year.
The majority of the impact though will be realized in 2012 related to Australia so that is reflected in our guidance.
But longer term as we mentioned in my prepared comments we do see nice acceleration adjusting for the U.K.
tender outside the U.S.
so far this year and we would expect other opportunities to continue to emerge.
We're very excited about getting ADVATE approved already in Brazil but in Russia and China over the next 12 to 18 months and so emerging markets I think continue to offer a nice opportunity for growth for us.
And Matt I would just add just so you have Australia for us was about a $75 million business in recombinant.
Last year.
Correct.
Our final question comes from Sara Michelmore with Brean Murray Carret.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> I'll just throw in a couple pipeline questions if I can.
Just on Alzheimer's could you just give us an update on the Phase III enrollment? And I think you mentioned last quarter that there had been a manuscript submitted on the Phase II Relkin data.
Just if you had an update there? Sure Sara.
Alzheimer's we did complete enrollment in the second quarter.
We've enrolled more than 360 patients which was required.
And so with an 18-month follow-up we expect to complete the second Phase III the end of next year.
And in the second half of this year we'll start the second Phase III and we'll keep you posted on that.
In terms of Dr.
Relkin he did submit his manuscript on Phase II data to a journal in I think the end of the first quarter.
And once that journal is accepted for publication it will be published.
Other than that we can't really control the timeline of that.
We would expect that hopefully before the end of the year.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And any update on when we might see data from the recombinant Factor IX program? Recombinant Factor IX is in a Phase I/III trial which will end next year in 2012 so it'll be probably sometime before the end of next year that we'll have data available.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations of Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Sean.
Good morning and welcome to our Q3 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thanks for calling in.
We're pleased today to announce financial results for the third quarter and also to provide you with an update on our full year 2011 outlook.
As you saw in this morning's press release adjusted EPS of $1.09 per diluted share increased 8% versus the prior year and was at the high end of our guidance of $1.07 to $1.09 per diluted share.
Third quarter sales growth was 8% on a reported basis and after adjusting for FX sales growth was 3%.
Excluding the sales that were related to the Generics Injectable business that we divested earlier in the year sales growth was 10% on a reported basis and 4% excluding the impact of foreign currency.
The evolving global macro environment will exert ongoing pressures on our business creating challenges that we will manage with disciplined execution of our strategies.
We continue to benefit from the diversified and medically necessary nature of our portfolio our broad geographic reach and strong financial position which provides us with the flexibility to invest in innovation advance our new product pipeline and augment future growth with select business development initiatives.
In the third quarter R&amp;D spending accelerated 15% supporting progress of investigational therapies and late-stage clinical development and success in obtaining approvals and launching innovative products in the global marketplace.
Some recent achievements include the following.
In the quarter we received FDA approval for GAMMAGARD LIQUID 10% SubQ and recently launched the therapy in the United States.
This allows Baxter to participate in this fast-growing segment in the PID market in the U.S.
for the first time.
We're pleased with the initial market acceptance of SubQ as we've secured both share gains and conversion of Baxter patients to this new therapy.
And we expect to continue to capitalize on the differentiation we've achieved with this product's favorable tolerability profile speed of infusion and low infusion site reaction rate observed in our clinical trials of 2.7%.
We submitted the applications to the FDA and the EMA for approval of HyQ allowing for the enhanced subcutaneous administration of a new immunoglobulin with recombinant human hyaluronidase for patients with PID.
We recently received notification from both agencies that the files had now been accepted for review.
Both submissions were based on results from the Phase III trial which met both its primary and secondary end points.
The final results will be presented at the annual meeting of the American College of Asthma Allergy and Immunology in Boston early November.
As you know we're also conducting Phase III clinical trials exploring the use of GAMMAGARD LIQUID as a therapy for 2 neurological conditions.
The first is for the treatment of multifocal motor neuropathy or MMN.
We've now completed our clinical trials in the U.S.
and Canada and expect to submit for approval in early 2012.
As a reminder Baxter is the only company with approval for the MMN indication in Europe and we've also been granted Orphan Drug status for the therapy in the U.S.
We continue to advance our Phase III trial for Alzheimer's.
As we previously mentioned we completed enrollment in our first Phase III trial with more than 360 patients in the second quarter of this year with an 18-month follow-up period we currently expect to complete the first Phase III trial by the end of 2012 and begin our second confirmatory Phase III trial in the coming months.
In our hemophilia franchise we've achieved a number of recent milestones.
For example we've now completed the global Phase I/II clinical trial of BAX 817 a recombinant Factor VIIa therapy and plan to advance into Phase III in early 2012.
We've also completed enrollment in the Phase I/III clinical trial for BAX 326 a recombinant Factor IX treatment for hemophilia B and expect to complete this trial and file for U.S.
approval in 2012 as well.
In addition we recently announced the initiation of the Phase III trial of BAX 111 the first and only recombinant von Willebrand factor which provides an alternative treatment option to currently marketed therapies that are plasma derived.
The Phase III multicenter open-label clinical trial is enrolling 36 patients with severe von Willebrand disease and we'll assess the safety efficacy and pharmacokinetics of BAX 111 for the prevention and treatment of bleeding episodes.
This is an exciting opportunity for Baxter with global market potential in excess of $300 million.
And finally on the business development front we announced the definitive agreement as you know to acquire Baxa Corporation for $380 million.
Baxa is a privately held company that develops automated pharmacy compounding technologies that enhances the efficacy and safety of oral and IV dose preparation and delivery.
Baxa's product offering complements Baxter's global portfolio of nutritional therapies and drug delivery systems leverages our global footprint and leadership in the hospital pharmacy and supports patient safety.
Annual sales for Baxa were approximately $150 million in 2010 and we expect future top line growth in this business to be accretive to our sales growth profile.
We've now received clearance of the transaction under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Acts -- Act and expect to close the acquisition before the end of the year.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on these programs and initiatives during our Q&amp;A later this morning.
Before turning the call over to Bob I wanted to update you on some positive developments related to 2 items that we previously discussed with you.
First I'm happy to report that we've successfully worked with the San Juan district office to resolve concerns at 2 of our manufacturing sites in Puerto Rico.
And we've now closed out the warning letter that was received earlier this year.
Secondly earlier this month the Irish Medicine Board or the IMB completed a thorough evaluation of Baxter's in-depth root cause investigation of impurities detected in some peritoneal dialysis solutions manufactured at our Castlebar Ireland facility.
This included a rigorous inspection of the rebuilt production lines and review of the extensive preventative and corrective actions put in place over the last several months.
Late last week we received confirmation from the IMB that they have no objection to the -- a resumption of production and the release of PD solutions manufactured on the new production lines in Castlebar.
Over the coming months the introduction and market replenishment of Castlebar PD solutions will be made with continued collaboration with the IMB and ministries of health in various countries.
We remain committed to ensuring that there's minimal disruption in delivering PD therapy to our patients as we transfer production back to this facility.
So with that I'd now like to ask Bob to review our third quarter financial results in more detail and also our guidance for the -- for 2011.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the quarter excluding special items increased 8% to $1.09 per diluted share which was at the high end of our guidance range of $1.07 to $1.09 per share.
As we mentioned in our press release our GAAP results included an after-tax special charge totaling $48 million or $0.08 per diluted share to account for the resolution of long-standing litigation pertaining to average wholesale price and certain historical rebate and discount adjustments.
Let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the quarter before turning to our financial outlook for the remainder of 2011 starting with sales.
Worldwide sales totaled $3.5 billion in the third quarter and advanced 8%.
Excluding currency sales grew 3%.
And after adjusting for the divestiture of the U.S.
Generic Injectables business constant currency sales growth was 4%.
Sales in the quarter were driven by balanced growth both in the U.S.
and abroad despite a challenging global macro environment.
In terms of individual business performance and beginning with BioScience global BioScience sales of $1.5 billion increased 9% in the third quarter.
Excluding foreign currency BioScience sales increased 4%.
Within the product categories recombinant sales of $552 million grew 5%.
Excluding foreign currency sales declined 1% as growth of 4% in the U.S.
was offset by the expected impact from recent tenders and somewhat slower demand across Europe given strong performance in the previous quarter.
On a year-to-date basis excluding the impact of tenders we discussed global recombinant sales growth excluding currency is in mid single digits consistent with global market demand.
Moving on to Plasma Proteins.
Sales in the quarter were $372 million and advanced 8%.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency sales grew 4%.
Growth across the various Plasma Proteins was significantly offset by lower albumin sales as a result of temporary supply constraints and delays in the clearance of shipments in China as a result of new testing guidelines that were implemented there late last year.
Combined these 2 items impacted sales in the quarter by approximately $20 million.
Sales in the U.S.
improved sequentially across multiple products in the portfolio including FEIBA PD Factor VIII and ARALAST but were down 8% year-over-year driven primarily by the supply constraints of albumin whereas international sales climbed 10% driven by strong demand for FEIBA and PD Factor VIII despite certain tender delays in Eastern Europe.
In Antibody Therapy sales of $380 million increased 13%.
Excluding foreign currency sales were up 11% driven by a robust demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID and the launch of SubQ.
Growth in this category of 11% also reflects some ongoing benefits related to Octapharma of at least $20 million in the third quarter.
Sales in regenerative medicine which includes our BioSurgery products totaled $143 million and increased 10%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 5% driven by high single-digit growth of Fibrin Sealants.
This performance was offset by lower ACTIFUSE revenues triggered by the temporary disruption in the U.S.
channel resulting from the planned transition to a direct sales model from ApaTech's former distributor model that we mentioned last quarter.
Finally revenues in the other category which includes vaccines totaled $70 million increasing 43% versus the prior year.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 15% due to strong growth at the FSME vaccine in Europe and receipt of a milestone payment related to our influenza collaboration in Japan with Takeda.
In Medical Products global sales in the third quarter totaled approximately $2 billion reflecting an increase of 7% on a reported basis.
After adjusting for foreign currency sales increased 1%.
Excluding sales related to the U.S.
multisource generic business reported sales growth for Medical Products was 10% or 4% on a constant currency basis in line with the first half 2011 growth of mid single digits.
Turning to the product categories.
Renal sales totaled $646 million and increased 9% on a reported basis.
Excluding foreign currency sales growth was 2% driven by global PD growth of 5%.
This performance was partially offset by the expected loss of PD patients to another U.S.
provider and lower HD revenues.
We continue to be pleased with the momentum and patient gains in the U.S.
given recent reimbursement changes and solid patient growth across Latin America and Asia.
Sales in the Global Injectables category advanced 5% to $494 million and excluding foreign currency sales were flat.
Excluding the divestiture growth of this category was 20% on a reported basis and 14% on a constant currency basis.
Contributing to this performance was very strong growth in our contract manufacturing and compounding businesses as well as strong demand for MINI-BAGs and certain injectable drugs.
IV therapy sales totaled $453 million and rose 9%.
Excluding foreign currency sales were up 3% driven primarily by strong growth of IV solutions in the U.S.
As expected our global nutrition business with annual sales in excess of $700 million has now lapsed previous share gains associated with competitor supply shortages and will face difficult growth comparisons over the next few quarters.
Infusion system sales totaled $222 million reflecting growth of 4% and sales increased 1% excluding foreign currency.
Growth was primarily driven by expanded placements and sales of the spectrum pump.
Finally anesthesia sales were $129 million increased 2%.
And excluding foreign currency sales declined 2% as high single-digit growth internationally was offset by lower demand in the U.S.
and competitive pricing pressures for generic sevoflurane.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin for the company was 50.9% in the third quarter which is 60 basis points lower than last year.
Operationally gross margin was in line with our third quarter expectations and better than the prior year primarily due to mix benefits in Medical Products and improved margins in the plasma business.
However this operational expansion was completely offset by 2 items: first cost associated with the Castlebar PD solution issue of approximately $20 million which was slightly higher than we originally expected; and secondly unexpected negative impact of foreign currency which was driven by volatility particularly in emerging markets during the quarter.
Excluding the Castlebar and foreign currency impacts the company's gross margin was 100 basis -- would've been 100 basis points higher.
SG&amp;A totaled $708 million in the quarter and increased 6% versus the prior year period.
This growth was driven entirely by the impact of foreign currency.
Excluding currency SG&amp;A was flat to the prior year as incremental pension expense and investments in a number of promotional activities were offset by business optimization savings and aggressive management of discretionary spending across the company.
R&amp;D spending accelerated in the third quarter to $239 million representing an increase of 15% as we continue to fund and advance a number of late-stage programs a few of which Bob mentioned earlier.
The operating margin in the quarter was 23.7% a sequential improvement of 20 basis points and the highest quarterly operating margin during 2011.
Interest expense was $14 million compared to $24 million last year.
This reduction is primarily result of a benefit from higher rate debt that matured in October 2010 and higher interest income.
The tax rate was 22.3% in the quarter 120 basis points higher than last year's rate of 21.1%.
This is driven by an increase in reserves related to anticipated tax settlements which is partially offset by a benefit in noncontrolling interest.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted EPS increased 8% to $1.09 per diluted share.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $922 million compared to $1 billion in the prior year period.
The reduction versus the prior year is a result of $111 million in payments made in the third quarter primarily related to the infusion pump recall.
DSO ended the quarter at 55 days an improvement both sequentially and year-over-year.
Given the challenging macro environment and our international country mix we continue to expect our DSO in the near term to drift somewhat higher.
Inventory turns of 2.5 are comparable to the prior quarter and modestly higher than the prior year driven primarily by improvement in BioScience.
Capital expenditures in the quarter were $235 million versus $232 million in the prior year period and are also trending somewhat below 2010 on a year-to-date basis.
And lastly during the third quarter we repurchased approximately 6 million shares of common stock for $292 million.
On a year-to-date basis we repurchased 26 million shares for $1.4 billion or on a net basis 18 million shares for just over $1 billion in line with our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
First for the full year we now expect earnings of $4.29 to $4.32 per diluted share which is at the high end of our previous guidance range of $4.27 to $4.32 per diluted share.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we continue to expect full year sales growth excluded foreign currency of 3% to 4%.
We currently expect foreign currency to benefit sales growth by approximately 2 points for the full year therefore we expect reported sales growth of approximately 5% to 6%.
This outlook includes 2011 sales of approximately $60 million related to the U.S.
multisource Generic Injectables business versus approximately $200 million in 2010.
The divestiture negatively impacts the company's full year sales growth by approximately one point.
We continue to expect the full year gross margin for the company to be 51% to 51.5% with a modest improvement over the gross margin in 2010 of 51.1%.
And we continue to expect both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D to grow in mid single digits for the year.
We expect interest expense for the year to total approximately $50 million to $60 million and other expense which includes noncontrolling interest to also be in the $50 million to $60 million range.
Given our mix of earnings we expect the tax rate of approximately 21.5%.
And finally we expect the full year average share count of approximately 575 million shares which assumes approximately $1 billion in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect cash flow from operations of approximately $2.8 billion.
This includes a 2011 pension contribution of $150 million and an outflow of approximately $300 million related to the execution of a COLLEAGUE consent order.
Now to expand on the full year sales assumptions for each of the businesses.
On a constant currency basis we expect low single-digit sales growth for Medical Products.
After adjusting for the divestiture organic sales growth is expected to be at mid single digits for this business.
By product category there is no material change from our previous expectations.
For BioScience we continue to expect sales excluding foreign currency to grow in the 5% to 6% range.
This includes recombinant sales growth for the full year in low single digits.
We now expect Plasma Protein sales to increase in mid to high single digits which reflects some delay in the timing of tenders as we exit the year.
We now expect Antibody Therapy sales to increase in low double digits and regenerative medicine sales to grow approximately 10% as we continue to work through the transition through a direct sales model for ACTIFUSE.
And finally we expect the other category within BioScience to decline approximately 10% reflecting the better-than-expected FSME vaccine sales and the difficult comparison from pandemic revenues recorded in the first quarter of 2010.
For the fourth quarter as we mentioned in our press release we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.15 to $1.18 and sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 2% to 3%.
Based on our outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to increase in the 1% to 2% range.
Thanks and I would like to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions]  I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Larry Keusch of Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob I'm wondering if you can just talk a little bit about the Plasma Protein market broadly and I guess including the Antibody Therapies.
Just sort of how you're thinking -- how you're seeing pricing play out in the U.S.
and o U.S.
markets and then any of the competitive dynamics that you could speak to in Europe for IVIG.
Okay.
There's a lot of pieces to that.
I'm not sure if you directed that to me or to Bob Hombach.
We'll kind of weigh into this because there's a lot of dimensions to your question.
I mean I -- fundamentally I would say that the market as we look at it today and the future prospects Larry is -- hasn't changed from what we've recently discussed.
I mean the long-term outlook for the Plasma Protein business is broadly defined and all components of that continues to be very positive.
I mean it's one of the reasons as we commented before that we're keeping old L.A for accurate [ph] commission now.
We have some capacity expansions in our Rieti facility.
And I think we just commented last quarter we also are making plans for -- to establish a new greenfield site for long-term demands.
So the long-term outlook overall for Plasma Protein growth continues to be I think very bullish and in our case augmented by some exciting new products like HyQ and then the new indications for GAMMAGARD over time.
In terms of -- then more granularly and in the short term U.S.
growth o U.S.
growth is consistent with what we've discussed before.
In -- go ahead Bob you want to add that? Yes.
I was just going to jump in.
On the pricing front I'd say no change in the U.S.
and in Europe.
I think over the course of the year we've seen a firming up and maybe a slight drift up in prices.
Now Octa has come back as of the third quarter but on somewhat limited basis.
So we haven't really seen much of an impact or change there yet but something we continue to monitor closely.
And I'd also add Larry that in terms of overall growth I think we've commented that Antibody Therapy or IVIG growth from a market perspective is somewhere in that 5% to 8% range.
And we continue to see the -- basically the market is supporting that growth.
There are really no changes from what we've discussed previously certainly in the last quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then 2 quick ones for you.
Obviously you're going into the more traditional contracting period for IVIG.
Any thoughts around that? And then Bob if you could just -- there've been a lot of puts and takes in the gross margin through the course of the year.
If you wouldn't mind just sort of helping us think about sort of what kind of moves through that piece of the income statement as we move forward would be helpful as well.
Okay.
I'll handle the first part then then turn it over to Bob Hombach Larry.
The reality is we're in the early stages of the contracting for 2012.
So I guess we don't really have a lot to report in that regard.
But again I don't think we see any surprises.
We certainly expect to extend the contracts that we have in place certainly maintain our share.
In terms of pricing we're not going to get into comment on that but I actually think Bob Hombach touched on that earlier.
So it's still early on that but we don't see any surprises.
So you want to comment on the gross margin Bob? Certainly yes.
Definitely some moving pieces here.
The 2 that I highlighted in my prepared comments I think are the most relevant relative to the expectation that we gave in July.
Recall in July that we have strong performance in the front half.
We indicated a couple of tailwinds that we had benefited from in the front half that we didn't expect to benefit from in the back half namely foreign exchange and also strong seasonal vaccine sales in the second quarter.
And so the vaccine situation played out as we expected given the seasonality.
But FX we thought would be neutral to us in the back half and actually given some dramatic moves primarily in emerging markets currency rates during the course of the quarter turned into bit of a headwind for us in the quarter.
And as I mentioned Castlebar as well.
While we're very pleased to have it resolved and be back in the position to resume production for supporting the PD patients in Europe during the course of the third quarter we did incur more costs than we anticipated and that negatively impacted the margin relative to our expectation.
But going forward in the fourth quarter those costs will be greatly minimized.
We will still have some residual costs as we ramp up production related to Castlebar but that's a headwind that hopefully we're beginning to put behind us.
Other than that the general mix benefits we tend to see improvements as I mentioned in the Plasma business relative to running at pretty high rates of operation.
We're definitely seeing those flow through as well.
Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Can you just spend a minute on your supply constraints and your limitations in the Plasma business? Say that again I didn't hear the question.
Supply constraints in the Plasma.
Research Division</strong> But this -- your supply constraints in Plasma Proteins obviously and particularly Antibody Therapy.
I think this is an important one to spend a little bit of time on.
So as we talked about we took collections and production out pretty significantly in 2010.
We got to a point kind of late third quarter where we were feeling good about where we are at and then we saw 2 things happen.
Market demand for our products started to firm up pretty nicely so there are pricing touch-ups and Octa left the marketplace.
And we almost immediately went from slowdown mode to having to try to ramp up pretty quickly.
And I think we have successfully ramped up to the point now where today we're operating at a run rate higher than our 2009 peak from a fractionation standpoint.
So that's the good news.
We also saw a very strong demand in the front half of 2011 here.
Particularly in the U.S.
you saw 20%-plus growth rates which well exceeds what we expect normal market or even Octa volume would have represented.
So we found ourselves in a situation where we've ramped up significantly but demand has ramped up as well and we've been very tight on inventories.
So as we entered the third quarter just doing something as normal as our 2-week summer shutdown that we do in pretty much all our manufacturing facilities around the world put us out even further tightness within the business for a period of time.
So we did actually exit the third quarter in a backorder situation in IVIG and albumin as we've mentioned.
Somewhat minor back orders but back orders nonetheless which we expect to clear up here in the month of October and move into hopefully a more -- somewhat more normalized inventory position.
But as long as Octa is out of the U.S.
market from an IVIG standpoint in particular we will we will remain in a tight situation.
Research Division</strong> And so how do we think about that relative to -- well -- I guess what I want you to just maybe touch on as well is your ability to increase your throughput going into 2012.
And basically what are your constraints on capacity on the assumption that maybe Octa is off the market for a longer period of time? And if they are off the market for an extended period what's the upper limit on your ability to produce products without getting into real issues with customers? Okay.
So a couple of dynamics there.
As we come out of our normal year-end shutdown this year we will continue the process of ramping up the new L.A.
frac facility.
I think we've talked about that running at kind of 60% to 70% capacity.
At this point as we're transitioning from old to new as we go into next year that will go up more towards 80%-plus utilization.
So we'll get additional volume there.
Now the idea previously was we'd ramp down old L.A.
but as we've talked about we've decided we're going to keep that open and extend the useful life.
And we're working through the process of investment and timing around when to make that happen but that will provide us once we get through that some additional capacity there to meet market demand in the near term.
And as Bob mentioned based on an investment we made several years ago we will see some additional capacity come online beginning to come online in the back half of 2012 at our Rieta -- Rieti Italy facility that will add us additional capacity in late 2012 and then into 2013.
So those dynamics I think will allow us to meet expanding market demand for our products particularly as we think about a HyQ launch in the back half of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Let me ask one pipeline question and I'll let some of the others jump in.
But could you just spend a minute on 326 and your view of the competitive profile of that product and the potential role in the market whether you are getting close to a filing of that product in 2012? Yes I mean we're very excited about that one in the sense that it's moving nicely through the clinic and we expect as you said to be able to file in 2012.
Given our broad hemophilia portfolio to begin with we think this will be a very nice addition especially as we look at tenders outside the U.S.
in particular.
The Factor IX market after this point from a recombinant standpoint has been one player.
And so we think the sooner we can get to the market with our broad offering and a product we think that will have some nice enhancements that looks like a nice opportunity for us going forward here.
So we'll move forward with the Phase III and look to file in middle of next year.
And then I'd also add Mike once we have the base Factor IX product in the marketplace we will be looking to enhance the half life of that product and look at a longer acting Factor IX as well.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted you -- see if you could expand a little -- in a little bit more detail regarding your commentary on share gains with the subcutaneous IVIG products in the United States and maybe help us frame what that market looks like from a sizing perspective and how we should think about the opportunity over the next 12 months.
And then as HyQ comes into the picture how that might change the dynamics of the market both from a share perspective and an overall penetration standpoint? David it's Mary Kay.
I'll make some comments and then turn it over to Bob and Bob for additional commentary.
But I think as we've talked and we've had this question many times today we believe the current SubQ market is probably in the call it $400 million $450 million range.
Basically the SubQ product is applicable to the PID patient which represents about 25% of the total global market which is call it 6 billion.
And today as part of that PID market the SubQ market represents about 30%.
It's 30% penetrated today.
So given that we now have a product in the U.S.
we can now start to enhance that penetration especially if we start to see the market for HyQ product which we expect approval for next year.
Bob I don't know if you want to add on the launch.
Yes.
I think we're already seeing with the SubQ product as Bob mentioned in his prepared comments that the infusion site reaction and infection rate benefits that our base product has the clinical data supports that as well for HyQ.
And so I think not only from a convenient standpoint but from a safety and tolerability standpoint we've got a good story there.
And the opportunity to grow in the fastest growing segment of the PID market is exciting to us.
So this gives us a foothold and familiarity with the marketplace here with SubQ.
Again it's early days but we've already seen pretty nice uptake and some switching.
I mean roughly half of the patients that we have today on our SubQ are switches from a competitive product.
I mean it's fair to say it's more than better than our expectations in terms of how the products have been received.
So we're very pleased with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a little bit more on the gross margin and currency.
And Bob can you maybe help us think about the impact currency has in a little more detail as we head into a period of time when FX actually turns into headwind? And assuming that rates stay at current levels that would be a headwind likely in 2012.
And so I know in the emerging markets you brought up that as an issue for this quarter and if I remember correctly those are currencies that you don't hedge.
There is sort of more of a straight forward drop-through.
But maybe in sort of more generically speaking how we should size up the impact of FX on a go forward basis? Sure.
So to your point historically we've talked about the fact that we do financial hedges for the developed market major currencies like the euro the pound the yen to a lesser degree the Aussie dollar the Canadian dollar and so on.
So we are able through national hedges through manufacturing facilities and all those market and locations as well as on the ground expenses augmented with financial hedges still largely mute the bottom line impact from currency fluctuations on a go-forward basis in those markets.
But as you point out historically we have not hedged in the emerging markets.
And as those continue to grow and become a larger part of overall portfolio if -- for the most part as those currencies have modestly over time appreciated against the dollar the impact has been fairly small.
When you have snapbacks like this where the dollar appreciates dramatically and currencies like the Brazilian reais moves 20% in a quarter that is a straight drop-through to the bottom line.
We do have some local manufacturing in places like Mexico and Brazil and currencies in Eastern Europe and some in Asia and so on but there is more of a drop-through impact.
So the issue really in the third quarter for us was the euro and some of the major currencies moved somewhat.
The emerging markets moved quite a bit.
And we've based that impact as a headwind into our Q4 guidance so we estimate that's probably a couple of pennies of a headwind that's in our expectation here in the fourth quarter.
As we go forward history would say that these snapbacks and dollar appreciation against emerging markets tend to happen periodically but not be very long lived and more of a kind of 1- to 2-quarter phenomena.
We'll have to see how that plays out.
And as we approach giving guidance in January we'll update you on our views there going forward.
Rick Wise of Leerink Swann is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I'll just ask them upfront.
First on the home hemo trial any color or any updates on restarting that and updated timing of approval and launch? And my second question is there's been some concern and recent discussion about those recent reimbursement policies.
We understand they apply to a very specific very narrow population but should we -- are you now more concerned that this might be a potential negative headwind or trend? Or is there greater potential for similar actions from other insurers that might be now more aggressive in directing patients toward specific products at specific prices? Any larger perspective would be great.
Let me -- Rick this is Bob Parkinson.
Let me take a stab in both of those and then Mary Kay and Bob can augment my comments.
On the HHD trial we did initiate the trial in August with the first patient which I would say responded very well to the therapy.
However we did observe a specific technical issue with the device.
And so as a really a precautionary measure I guess you'd say we decided to take the time upfront to kind of assess and rectify the issue before we brought it into trial and we brought on more patients.
So we temporarily delayed for the treatments until we have this issue resolved.
I would tell you that we now have it.
We understand the root cause.
We validate the mitigation and we've communicated that to the FDA.
So where we stand right now is we are waiting go ahead from the FDA to restart the trial which could happen really at any time.
So that's really where that stands.
I would say that we don't believe that the delay will impact what we have communicated previously in terms of the timeline either for the CE Mark in 2012 or for the filing of a nocturnal indication in the U.S.
in 2013.
So that's really where home hemo stands.
On the reimbursement front I guess at a high level and then Mary Kay I'll let you maybe get more granular here look I think we all need to accept the fact that the broader economic environment and affordability of countries to provide access to healthcare is going to continue to put reimbursement pressures on everything.
I mean that's just the -- that's the dynamic and the environment.
I think it's going to be more evolutionary in nature over time.
But that's the world we live in today and going forward.
In terms of some of the specific things in the U.S.
Mary Kay maybe I'll let you comment on what we've seen recently.
Yes.
Rick I'm assuming you're talking about the Aetna issue that was raised last week? Research Division</strong> Exactly.
Yes.
So -- I think as we communicated last week there's really no new news related to Aetna.
They implemented this policy late last year went into effect January of this year.
Really it covered the patients covered under the pharmacy benefit of their plans which accounted for about 10% of the patients.
So in the other 90% of the patients that are covered under the Medical Benefit there is no preferred supplier that's been identified.
And there is open access to all the therapy.
The reason that Aetna moved that way is our understanding is that there was for the pharmacy benefit some new state regulations in less than a handful of states that required that a preferred supplier be selected.
So they did go ahead and do that.
Baxter was not selected.
However we have not seen any conversion of any patient from our therapy to another therapy because of the reimbursement change that was implemented there.
Research Division</strong> Just to quickly follow-up.
So just again what's the risk that these market dynamics change and we see greater restrictions on all patients not just pharmacy patients? And broadly I -- just -- do you -- are you more worried about that Bob or Mary Kay? I'm not more worried about it than what I did.
But as I said on a high level I mean directionally these are expensive therapies and the payers are going to look for ways to ratchet down their cost.
I mean that's just the environment that we live in.
Having said that Rick I don't think we see a specific event that's going to accelerate it.
I just think that it's just going to continue to evolve over time and we don't see a dramatic short-term impact or change in our outlook.
David Lewis of Morgan Stanley is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> A question one for Bob P.
and one for Bob H.
For Bob one of the things that surprised us in the first few months here of the Grifols-Talecris integration is how aggressive they seem to be in terms of their integration in the U.S.
on sales and marketing.
They're actually keeping a dramatically higher sales force in the U.S.
than I guess you would have expected.
And in terms of raw body count it seems actually seem larger than Baxter and CSL.
So they're sort of seeming to be setting up for a larger U.S.
presence over the next couple of years at the same time Bob you have a highly differentiated product coming out in 2012 and into 2013 with HyQ.
So I wonder if you could share with us your view of sort of U.S.
market dynamics with sort of 3 major players one of which was just going through integration their increased sales focus and sort of your significantly new product enhancements.
Well I mean really David -- I mean I think everyone has recognized that you still have -- particularly in PID you have a lot of undiagnosed patients.
I mean we've had sales force for the past as well just to make sure that we penetrate the market to the degree possible.
So I think all of the players have actually added sales force as it gets back to basic demand creation.
So I can't comment specifically on that number of people that Grifols-Talecris is going to -- will have in their sales force after they complete the integration.
But to the degree it's more candidly I'm not surprised by that because I think there is opportunity to continue to develop the market.
So I think that's very aligned and consistent with what we've communicated previously.
As it relates to the opportunity that we will have hopefully in the second half of next year in terms of HyQ let me -- obviously that's a product unique to us and we're very excited about.
And the sales force that we've built up over the last couple of years we should find ourselves well positioned I think to capitalize on that opportunity because of how we staffed up over the last couple of years in our sales resources.
Is there anything specific -- more specific than that you'd like our comments on or? Research Division</strong> No that's very clear Bob.
And maybe for the other Bob.
Just heading into 2012 I know we're going to stay away from giving full 2012 guidance.
But I wondered Bob if you'd help us just understand a couple of specific items.
Obviously this quarter gross margins would've been 100 basis points higher if it wasn't for a onetimer or so.
The outlook for GMs at least in my mind looks better in 2012 and certainly for 2011.
But I wonder if you could just remind us of things to keep in mind into 2012 headwinds and tailwinds on gross margin and any thoughts you can share with us on pension at this time be very helpful.
Sure sure.
On the gross margin line one obvious tailwind we should have next year is with the resolution of the Castlebar issue going into next year.
That won't be in front of us.
So that should help margins for sure.
In terms of headwinds we have the Australia recombinant Factor VIII tender which -- that continues to play out slowly.
Our expectation is that since we are not named as 1 of the 2 recipients of that tender that by the middle of next year we're going to be in position that we would not be participating in the market.
But I think there are still some open question there but there's one that would definitely negatively impact sales and margin going into next year.
This decision around extend the useful life of the L.A.
facility which long term absolutely the right thing to do for us there will be a period of time there where we will incur some inefficiencies while we do that.
So timing that and sizing that is something we'll do as we move towards January.
Octapharma's return is going to be a variable that will impact top line and margin as well a bit depending on how and when they return to the U.S.
market.
And then finally on pension that one is -- interest rates have come down dramatically although they have bounced back up a little bit.
I've seen some estimates that have been thrown out there that are higher than the impact this year which is about $0.08.
My sense is at this point given where interest rates are at it would be a bit less than that but still kind of in that ballpark.
And we'll continue to evaluate options around how we might mitigate that or how we might think differently about managing and reporting pension expense going forward.
So that's one that we'll continue to give some thought here and watch interest rates as we move towards the end of this year.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America is on the line with a questions.
Research Division</strong> I can't help but follow up to that question on gross margins and just sort of finish the thought.
So when you think about all those things plus currency are the tailwinds and headwinds about equal or are there more headwinds and tailwinds? How do we think about that? Currency is such a variable here.
But a couple of things.
One earlier this year we actually hedged the majority of our euro exposure as an example in -- for 2012.
So I think we've got a pretty good forehand on what is -- are the key currencies that impacts us.
As I said we don't hedge the emerging markets but those tended to -- again the volatility around those tends to be kind of a 6-month phenomena at least history would say so.
So we'll have to see how that plays out.
So I'd hate to speculate on whether that turns into a minor headwind a major headwind or no headwind at all because I think all 3 of those are possibilities from where we sit today depending on what happens in the macro environment.
But I'd say headwinds and tailwind at this point given everything we know are reasonably balanced going into next year with maybe a slight tilt toward headwinds with this FX issue.
If rates were to stay exactly where they're at today that would be a bit of a headwind for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then can you break out in this quarter and maybe it's -- also for fourth quarter on gross margin what the exact impact was on a year-over-year basis in terms of basis points from the emerging market currency fluctuation? Yes.
I mean it would -- it's hard to say in terms of just looking at that item.
But relative to our expectation there was about a 50 basis point impact on us in the quarter.
For all of FX not just emerging markets.
Yes yes.
And I would say as I've mentioned that we've hedged the majority of our euro exposure.
For the euro the yen the pound the Aussie dollar and so on.
As a matter of policy we only hedge 80% of what we think our net exposure is.
So there's always going to be a slight residual impact on those major currencies as well in our results.
Research Division</strong> And then in your Q4 -- the full year guidance what do you assume for Octa in Q4? We assume that they're not in the U.S.
So we get the full benefit we've been running through.
And that they largely returned in Europe and that we retain a small amount of benefit but not much.
And just remember that we did have a $30-million benefit last year in Q4 related to Octapharma.
So to the extent we lose anything in Europe it's a slight headwind from a growth rate standpoint.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally 2 of this bigger-picture questions.
The HyQ full data presentation that's coming in a couple of weeks in Boston what should we expect from that that's new that hasn't been discussed before? How important is that release? And then also if you could just give some bigger-picture thoughts on Europe from a BioScience perspective? How confident you are that Europe won't slip as we move forward? Go ahead Bob.
Yes.
So as it relates to HyQ data I think it's early November in Boston as you've mentioned.
Frankly we were very pleased with the strong data we shared on the interim basis back in October of last year in Istanbul.
So I think what you'll see is the full data confirms the very strong results as it relates to comparability to IV from a amount of product use infusion time et cetera.
As we've mentioned the infusion site reaction and infection rates are much lower than competitive products and similar profile to IVIG and SubQ.
So we're -- we'll be pleased to confirm that those interim results were in fact what we see in the broader population which we think are very strong period.
So nothing new.
As it relates to Europe we did see some softness in a few key products in the third quarter.
We are expecting some slight rebound in a few areas including recombinants as an example.
It's something that we continue to monitor very closely but at this point there's nothing that's obvious or announced in terms of whether governments try to do anything at the end of the year from a window dressing standpoint.
But as you look in our guidance for the fourth quarter and a $0.03 range I mean one of the reasons there's a $0.03 range is there's a little bit uncertainty around year-end government action and a little bit of uncertainty around FX.
So that's kind of somewhat baked into our expectation there in terms of the range.
Our next question is from Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just clarify one thing that was said to your -- just on gross margins.
You mentioned about 50 bps of FX.
Could you give us a sense of how much the Castlebar the overage that you mentioned Bob and Castlebar impact to the margins? Well yes.
I mean in absolute terms it -- overall it was 50 basis points.
But in terms of the overage it was more like 3 basis -- 30 basis points 25 30 basis points.
Research Division</strong> So those 2 things together maybe 80 bps of the impact.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then also on gross margin.
You mentioned some headwinds and tailwinds.
Can you talk about where we are in terms of the productivity of your Plasma business? I'm imagining that you're starting to see some of the inventories of sort of running a higher productions coming through your P&amp;L.
Are we there? Are we getting there to see some of those benefits? Well certainly yes.
We saw some of that in the third quarter.
We're seeing some of that in the fourth quarter which is going to offset some of the impact.
Basically by giving the full year guidance we've implied that we have a better gross margin percentage rate in the fourth quarter than we had in the third quarter despite the fact that we're going to have if rates stay where they're at a full quarter's worth of FX downside related to the emerging markets.
So some of that offset is going to be mixed some of that offset is going to be manufacturing efficiencies that we gained in our plants here over the last 9 months.
Research Division</strong> And then a follow-up on -- there was a question on contracting.
And it strikes me that we hit this cycle every year and every year you don't really want to say much and ought -- not want to say much which I understand.
But this year is a little different for a couple reasons.
And one is as part of the integration of Talecris and Grifols there is some changing around of hands of some volumes in the U.S.
particularly in IVIG a new player Kedrion entering this cycle of contracting.
And then also of course it's different because Octa is not quite back.
And I'm wondering how you feel like you're positioned with respect to those 2 dynamics.
Well I think in general we feel pretty good about how we're positioned.
I mean I think we've demonstrated an ability to step in when a competitor is out of the market and deliver significant volume to the marketplace.
As I said 20% demand growth in Q1 and Q2 of this year that we've been able to step up to.
So I think continuity of supply is key.
I think the quality of our IVIG franchise is evident in the infusion rate number that we've been talking about on infection site -- or infusion site and infection rate number that we've talked about.
And then we have the whole HyQ dynamic to discuss with our customer base for 2012 as well and that's a clear differentiation that I think changes the outlook for us relative to whatever else competitors might be thinking about.
As it is is well received as the 10% SubQ has been.
So given the acceptance of that product and as Bob said the prospects of HyQ give us some things to talk about this year that we haven't talked about before as well.
So I think that contributes to our I think our sense of confidence that we'll secure things going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then finally on I appreciate that on pumps.
I don't know if we touched on where you are there.
And one of the things that we've been looking for you to give us and I think you've been unable to because you're still in the midst of this transition in COLLEAGUE is when are we going to get a sense of where are all the shares settles out? How you feel about your ability to retain your previous customers with SIGMA and so on? All right.
Well let me comment and Bob or Mary Kay can add on.
I -- first of all we're on track consistent with the agreed-upon consent order in terms of getting COLLEAGUEs out of the market by approximately midyear.
Next year SIGMA scaled up their production capacity very nicely.
So that's all working well Matt.
I would tell you the SIGMA device is being very well received in the market and we're pleased with the progress.
In terms of the second part of your question how is this all going to settle out obviously a lot of moving parts here including field corrective actions by competitive devices and so on.
So this is always the case in the infusion pump business.
There's a lot of moving parts but I think we feel pretty good about our position right now in terms of: A replacing the COLLEAGUEs in the field; B the acceptance of the SIGMA device; and I guess C as we move into the later stages of next year hopefully being able to play a little bit more offense in this space than we have over the last few years.
Yes.
Matt I would just add that if there were -- if this were 9-inning game in terms of customers deciding where they're at and which way they're going to go we're in the eighth inning.
So it's pretty far down the track.
Again we're very pleased with how things have played out relative to our initial expectations.
It's a little tough to pinpoint a share number because there have been competitive bids out there that have nothing to do with COLLEAGUE and we've done well in some of those related to SIGMA gaining some business that we didn't previously have in any case.
So it's a moving target for sure but again generally very pleased where -- with where we're at.
And as Bob said back half of 2012 it's a new world.
Our final question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Rob Wisniewski filling in for Kristen.
I just have a quick question on PD.
Could you maybe expand on kind of what are the competitive issues there and whether you expect to see headwinds going forward and whether there are any tenders coming up? I think we're experiencing the headwinds we're going to experience here in 2011 as frankly Fresenius has moved some of the patients previously they served with our product onto their product.
So we're pretty far down the track of that conversion away from us occurring.
And absent that though we're seeing high single digit kind of double-digit patient growth in the U.S.
with our other customers because of the reimbursement change.
So we're -- we continue to be very excited about the opportunities to reinvigorate PD penetration in the U.S.
And in terms of tenders outside the U.S.
those go on all the time.
Some of the bigger ones would be Mexico although it's not clear at this point whether Mexico is going to specifically tender or continue to do more of the one-off contracting that we've seen over the last couple of years.
So really nothing else that I'm aware of that's material to talk about.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's Conference Call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations of Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Sean.
Good morning and welcome to our Q4 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer; and Dr.
Norbert Riedel Chief Science and Innovation Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thanks for calling in.
As I've had the opportunity to reflect on 2011 I can tell you that I'm very pleased with the progress our company continues to make financially operationally and scientifically.
In fact despite the global macro environment competitive landscape and ongoing uncertainty Baxter continues to report strong financial results.
This includes record sales and earnings for 2011 as you saw this morning while accelerating investments in innovation advancing our new product pipeline and pursuing other initiatives to enhance long-term growth while returning significant value to our shareholders.
As you saw in our press release issued earlier this morning adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter increased 5% to $1.17 per diluted share.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $4.31 which exceeded our original guidance range provided last January of $4.15 to $4.25 per diluted share.
On a reported basis worldwide sales in the fourth quarter increased 3% and after adjusting for the U.S.
multisource generic injectable divestitures sales growth was 4%.
For the full year 2011 worldwide sales increased 8% or 5% after adjusting for foreign exchange and the divestiture.
And we're particularly pleased with our continuing ability to generate significant cash flow which exceeded $2.8 billion for the year while maintaining our disciplined capital allocation strategy of returning value to our shareholders through increased dividends and share repurchases.
As some of you may know in October Baxter achieved an important milestone in celebrating our 80th anniversary providing an opportunity to reflect on our great heritage as a pioneer and innovator in the development of lifesaving life-sustaining therapies for patients and customers around the world.
As you've heard me say many times innovation is our most important strategic priority and 2011 was an outstanding year as we significantly increased our R&amp;D investment to a record level.
This has resulted in a meaningful new product pipeline that's as strong today as at any time in our company's history one that's focused on enhancing clinical outcomes improving the safety and cost effective of treatments and expanding access to care.
I'm specifically encouraged with our pipeline achievements in 2011 as we advanced more than 20 key R&amp;D programs within late-stage clinical development.
Many of these programs have the potential to profoundly improve the treatment and delivery of care for chronic diseases like hemophilia immune deficiencies Alzheimer's disease and end-stage renal disease.
So let me take just a moment to highlight a number of these accomplishments.
Within our leading hemophilia franchise we have achieved a number of milestones.
For example we've now completed the global Phase I/II clinical trial of BAX 817 or recombinant Factor VIIa therapy and plan to advance into Phase III in early 2012.
We've also completed enrollment in the Phase I/III clinical trial of BAX 326 our recombinant Factor IX treatment for hemophilia B and expect to conclude this trial and file for U.S.
approval in 2012.
We initially announced the initiation of the Phase III trial of BAX 111 the first and only recombinant bundle of brent [ph] factor which provides an alternative treatment option to currently marketed therapies that are plasma derived.
This is an exciting opportunity for Baxter with global market potential in excess of $300 million.
In December ADVATE was approved by the FDA as the only Factor VIII prophylactic treatment for both children and adults.
The approval was based on a Phase IV prophylaxis study demonstrating that ADVATE significantly reduced median annual bleed rates in hemophilia A patients by 98% representing a reduction from 44 bleeds when treated on demand to 1 when treated prophylactically.
Of the 2 prophylactic regimens approved for use the pharmacokinetic-driven dosing schedule of every 3 days offer some patients the choice of fewer infusions versus the current standard prophylaxis regimen.
And earlier this month we announced the dosing of the first patients in a Phase I clinical trial of BAX 855 a longer-acting PEGylated Factor VIII therapy based on the full-length ADVATE molecule.
The Phase I results will serve as the foundation for advancing this important program for clinical development in determining whether BAX 855 can offer a treatment regimen requiring fewer infusions than ADVATE.
In the area of immune deficiencies we continue to be successful in driving differentiation of GAMMAGARD LIQUID by offering various dosage forms enhancing delivery options and expanding the number of approved indications.
As you know early in 2011 we introduced the first and only 30-gram dose vial for GAMMAGARD LIQUID in the U.S.
the most frequently prescribed dose for primary immune-deficiency patients which enhances user convenience.
We received FDA approval for GAMMAGARD LIQUID 10% subQ allowing Baxter to participate for the first time in this fast-growing segment of the PID market in the U.S.
We're pleased with the initial market acceptance as we secured both share gains and conversions of Baxter patients to this new therapy and we expect to continue to capitalize on the differentiation we've achieved with this product's favorable tolerability profile speed of infusion and low infusion site reaction rate included in our label of 2.7%.
We also submitted HyQ for approval in the U.S.
Europe and Canada during 2011.
HyQ allows for enhanced delivery of GAMMAGARD LIQUID subcutaneously facilitated by recombinant human hyaluronidase.
The regulatory submissions were based on results from a Phase III trial which met both its primary and secondary endpoints and were represented at the Annual Meeting of the American College of Asthma Allergy and Immunology in Boston.
We also received approval in Europe for GAMMAGARD LIQUID or KIOVIG as a therapy for multifocal motor neuropathy.
This represents the first and only centrally licensed indication for MMN in that region and Baxter's first chronic neurological indication.
We also recently completed the Phase III MMN clinical trial and submitted for approval in the U.S.
where we've been granted orphan drug status.
We enrolled the last patient in our first Phase III study for Alzheimer's in 2011 and expect to complete that trial by the end of this year.
And earlier this week we announced our plans to initiate a second confirmatory Phase III trial following a successful futility analysis that was conducted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board.
It's important to note that the futility analysis is not an interim look and the trial remains blinded.
However the analysis indicated greater than a 20% statistical probability of success in achieving statistical significance in the primary efficacy outcomes.
In our regenerative medicine business we achieved a number of milestones including the approval and U.S.
launch of ARTISS Fibrin Sealant for use in facial surgery and the U.S.
regulatory filing for TISSEEL Fibrin Sealant for vascular surgery providing a broad hemostasis label.
As we've previously mentioned we're very pleased with the publication of data from Baxter's Phase II chronic myocardial ischemia adult stem cell program which was published in the scientific journal Circulation Research.
Results from the trial demonstrate that injection of the patient's own CD34+ adult stem cells into targeted sites in the heart had therapeutic benefits such as reduced angina episodes and improved exercise tolerance.
We look forward to moving into a Phase III clinical trial early this year.
And finally we initiated our first home hemodialysis trial which has the potential to deliver enhanced clinical outcomes and greater patient convenience to those with end-stage renal disease.
The first U.S.
clinical study will assess device performance and safety in patients undergoing in-center hemodialysis and multiple trials are planned in the U.S.
and Canada to support CE Mark in 2013 and the U.S.
launch in 2014.
These achievements depict just a handful of the programs in our pipeline that will present great opportunities for Baxter in the years to come.
And I'm increasingly encouraged with our progress and we look forward to updating you on further R&amp;D achievements in the future.
Throughout 2011 we also accelerated the pace of business development with several new business partnerships that complement our current businesses enhance our product portfolio and leverage our scientific manufacturing and commercial capabilities.
Some examples include the acquisition of Prism Pharmaceuticals a specialty pharmaceutical company that developed and received FDA approval for NEXTERONE.
Second we acquired Baxa Corporation which complements Baxter's global portfolio of nutritional therapies and drug delivery systems leverages our global footprint and leadership in the hospital pharmacy and supports patient safety.
Third we recently announced the definitive agreement to acquire Synovis an acquisition that complements and expands Baxter's regenerative medicine and biosurgery franchise including a number of devices and biological products for hemostasis tissue sealing and adherence.
And finally we entered into a collaboration with Momenta to develop and commercialize follow-on biologic products also known as biosimilars.
With this collaboration Baxter will leverage its leading clinical development and biologic manufacturing expertise global leadership in injectables and global commercial capabilities while Momenta will provide its expertise in high-resolution analytics characterization and product and process development.
This collaboration complements our early stage pipeline and allows us to expand our leadership and leverage our expertise and capabilities in biologics at a time when the global regulatory pathway for approval is becoming more evident.
These transactions reflect our attempt of being more proactive on the business development front going forward and they also exemplify the types of opportunities we will pursue.
Those that complement our existing portfolio and expand our market-leading positions leverage our global footprint channel our customer relationships capitalize on our core scientific or manufacturing capabilities and provide for low-integration risk and a higher confidence in achieving success.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on these or other topics during the Q&amp;A.
And with that I'd like to ask Bob to review our fourth quarter financial results and guidance for 2012 in more detail and then I'll come back to provide some closing perspectives.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share on the fourth quarter excluding special items increased 5% to $1.17 per diluted share which was at the high end of our guidance range of $1.15 to $1.18 per diluted share.
As we mentioned in our press release our GAAP results include after-tax special items of approximately $200 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
Approximately 35% of this charge is noncash.
The special items primarily include costs associated with the business optimization initiative pertaining to certain manufacturing and business operations around the world.
These actions include the elimination of a number of positions as we continue to streamline our international operations rationalize our manufacturing footprint and optimize our general and administrative infrastructure.
Annual savings are expected to total approximately $0.12 per share when fully implemented in 2014.
For 2012 savings will equate to approximately $0.05 per diluted share which is in addition to an incremental $0.03 of savings related to our actions implemented throughout 2011.
Additionally the Q4 charge includes certain asset impairments principally related to write-down of the company's Greek government bonds.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 before turning to our financial outlook for 2012.
Starting with sales worldwide sales totaled $3.6 billion in the fourth quarter and increased 3%.
Foreign currency did not impact sales growth.
Therefore growth on a constant currency basis was also 3% and in line with our guidance range of sales growth in the 2% to 3% range.
Excluding the U.S.
multisource injectables divestiture Q4 sales growth was 4% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
For the full year global sales increased 6% to $13.9 billion.
Excluding foreign currency and the impact of the U.S.
multisource generic injectable divestiture sales growth was 5%.
In terms of the individual business performances beginning with BioScience global BioScience sales of $1.6 billion increased 3% in the fourth quarter both on a recorded and constant currency basis.
For the full year global Bioscience sales of $6.1 billion increased 7% or 5% excluding foreign currency.
Within the product categories recombinant sales of $578 million advanced 8%.
Excluding foreign currency sales grew 7% with balance growth between both the U.S.
and international markets.
On a year-to-date basis recombinant sales exceeded $2.2 billion and excluding the negative impact of tenders full year recombinant growth on a constant currency basis was in mid-single digits consistent with global market demand.
Moving on to Plasma Proteins.
Sales in the quarter were $397 million and declined 4% versus the prior year period.
On a constant currency basis sales declined 2% despite a sequential increase in revenues of approximately 12%.
This was primarily a result of a difficult comparison to last year given the phasing of tenders.
In addition the decline in sales can be attributed to 2 items: timing of plasma-derived Factor VIII shipments related to a large Brazilian tender and temporary supply constraints and delays in the clearance of shipments in China resulting in backorders of approximately $15 million.
Excluding these items sales growth for the Plasma Protein category was in mid-single digits.
For the full year Plasma Protein sales exceeded $1.4 billion and increased 5% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
In Antibody Therapy sales of $406 million increased 5%.
Excluding foreign currency sales were up 6% driven by robust demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID particularly in the U.S.
and a successful launch of our SubQ therapy.
As you know Octapharma returned to the market on a global basis and we annualized the benefits of their absence in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the Octapharma benefit from both years sales growth in the fourth quarter for Antibody Therapy on a constant currency basis was approximately 10%.
For the full year Antibody Therapy sales exceeded $1.5 billion and increased 14% versus 2010 or 13% on a constant currency basis faster than market demand.
As we've previously mentioned our full year results included a benefit of approximately $100 million in sales related to meeting demand previously served by Octapharma.
In the fourth quarter sales of regenerative medicine which includes our biosurgery products totaled $150 million and increased 3% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
High single-digit growth of our surgical sealants was offset by lower ACTIFUSE revenues resulting from our planned transition to a direct sales model from ApaTech's former distributor model as we've discussed in previous quarters.
For the full year regenerative medicine sales of $580 million increased 10% or 8% on a constant currency basis despite global weakness in surgical procedures.
Finally revenues in the other category which includes of vaccines totaled $44 million in the fourth quarter and declined 16% versus the prior year.
This is primarily due to a benefit in 2010 from onetime orders for our meningitis C vaccine that did not recur in 2011.
In Med Products global sales in the fourth quarter totaled approximately $2 billion reflecting an increase of 3% or 2% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for the U.S.
multisource generic injectables divestiture reported sales growth for Medical Products was 6% or 5% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year excluding the prior year COLLEAGUE charge Medical Product sales of $7.8 billion increased 6% and on a constant currency basis sales increased 3%.
Also after adjusting for the divestiture full year sales growth was 8% or 5% on a constant currency basis.
Now turning to the product categories.
Renal sales in the quarter totaled $664 million and increased 6% on a reported basis.
Excluding foreign currency sales growth of 5% was driven primarily by global PD growth of 8% which was partially offset by the continuing loss of PD patients to another U.S.
service provider and lower HD revenues.
I've mentioned we continue to be pleased with the ongoing momentum in patient gains in the U.S.
given the recent reimbursement changes and solid patient growth across Latin America and Asia.
Sales in the Global Injectables category of $487 million declined 2% and excluding foreign currency sales declined 3%.
Excluding the divestiture growth of this category was 10% or 9% on a constant currency basis resulting from strong growth in our compounding business as well as a robust demand for MINI-BAGs and certain injectable drugs.
IV therapy sales totaled $469 million and rose 4% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Contributing to this performance was the addition of Baxa sales to our nutrition franchise which totaled approximately $20 million as well as strong growth of IV solutions in the U.S.
Infusion systems sales totaled $235 million reflecting growth of 2% on a reported and constant currency basis.
Growth was a result of expanded placements and sales of the Spectrum pump.
Finally anesthesia sales of $147 million increased 4% on a reported and constant currency basis driven by solid demand in the U.S.
primarily for Suprane and other critical care products.
This growth was partially offset by competitive pricing pressures for generic sevoflurane.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin for the company was 51.8% in the fourth quarter an improvement of 90 basis points sequentially and 180 basis points versus the prior year.
Margin expansion in the quarter is primarily result of mixed benefits derived from across the portfolio and improved manufacturing efficiencies in the plasma business.
For the full year gross margin was 51.4% which is 30 basis points higher than the 2010 gross margin of 51.1% and in line with our full year guidance.
SG&amp;A totaled $748 million in the quarter and increased 6% versus the prior year period.
Excluding foreign currency SG&amp;A increased 5% as incremental pension expense and investments in a number of promotional activities focused on upcoming new product launches were partially offset by business optimization savings and aggressive management of discretionary spending.
For the full year SG&amp;A increased 7% with FX contributing 3 percentage points of growth.
And as a percent of sales the SG&amp;A ratio of 21.1% was flat to 2010.
R&amp;D spending accelerated in the fourth quarter to $254 million representing an increase of 11% as we continue to fund in advance a number of late-stage programs several of which Bob mentioned earlier.
R&amp;D for the full year totaled $946 million a new record lever for the company.
The operating margin in the quarter was 23.9% a sequential improvement of 20 basis points from the third quarter and the highest quarterly operating margin during 2011.
For the full year operating margin was 23.5% an improvement over 2010 by 20 basis points primarily a result of gross margin improvements.
Interest expense was $15 million compared to $19 million last year.
This reduction is primarily a result of a benefit from higher rate debt that matured last year and higher interest income.
The tax rate was 20.4% in the quarter in line with our expectations and similar to last year's rate.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted EPS was $1.17 per diluted share an increase of 5%.
For the full year adjusted EPS was $4.31 representing an 8% increase.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $892 million compared to $935 million in the prior year period.
The reduction versus the prior year is a result of $89 million in payments primarily related to the infusion pump recall.
On a full year basis cash flow from operations exceeded $2.8 billion compared to $3 billion last year.
After adjusting for pension and the payments principally related to COLLEAGUE cash flow from operations exceeded $3.3 billion.
Capital expenditures of $960 million were similar to the prior year period resulting in free cash flow excluding pension and other payments in excess of $2.3 billion.
DSO ended the quarter at 53.5 days an improvement sequentially but one day higher than the year-end DSO within 2010.
And inventory turns of 2.7 also improved sequentially but were lower than last year.
And lastly during 2011 we repurchased approximately 30 million shares of common stock for approximately $1.6 billion or a net basis 20 million shares for approximately $1.2 billion higher than our original objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the first quarter and full year 2012.
First for the full year we expect earnings of $4.47 to $4.59 per diluted share.
This guidance includes a net headwind of approximately $0.25 per diluted share for nonoperational items including incremental pension expense and the impact of foreign currency particularly in emerging markets.
By line item for the P&amp;L and starting with sales we project full year sales growth of approximately 2%.
Excluding foreign currency sales growth will be in the 4% to 5% range as foreign currencies assumed to be -- to have a 2% to 3% impact on top line.
This outlook includes incremental sales from the Baxa and Synovis acquisitions of approximately $160 million and $65 million respectively.
The contribution from these acquisitions is more than offset by the impact of Octapharma the typical first quarter comparison resulting from the U.S.
multisource generic injectable divestiture and other headwinds we've discussed.
We expect the full year gross margin rate for the company to be flat to modestly below the 2011 gross margin of 51.4% as operational improvements of approximately 50 to 100 basis points are offset by a number of headwinds primarily dilution from recent transactions and the impact of foreign currency and pension.
We expect SG&amp;A to grow in low-single digits and R&amp;D to grow in low- to mid-single digits for the year.
Interest expense for the year will total approximately $80 million and other expense including noncontrolling interest will be in the $20 million to $30 million range.
We assumed a tax rate of approximately 21.5% flat with 2011 and a full year average share count of 550 million to 555 million shares which assumes approximately $1 billion in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we plan to generate cash flow from operations of more than $3 billion which includes an outflow of approximately $250 million related to the finalization of the COLLEAGUE consent order.
Now to expand on full year sales assumptions for each of the businesses.
First on a constant currency basis we expect Medical Product sales to grow in mid-single digits.
By product category IV therapy sales will grow in high-single digits.
As you know this category includes the nutrition business and will benefit from the Baxa acquisition that closed in the fourth quarter.
Anesthesia and Global Injectable sales will increase in mid-single digits while infusion system sales will decline approximately 5% reflecting a tough comparison for SIGMA as we complete the consent order later this year.
And lastly we expect renal sales to grow in low-single digits.
For BioScience we project sales growth excluding foreign currency in mid-single digits.
This includes low single-digit growth for recombinants reflecting the impact of recent tenders and Plasma Protein sales growth in mid-single digits.
For Antibody Therapy sales of low-single digits reflecting robust underlying demand and a modest benefit related to our HyQ launch in the second half of 2012 both of which are partially offset by the impact of Octapharma.
We expect regenerative medicine sales to grow approximately 20% which includes the addition of Synovis.
And finally we expect the other category within BioScience to decline approximately 5% driven primarily by lower third-party plasma sales.
For the first quarter as we mentioned in our press release we expect earnings per diluted share of $0.98 to $1 and sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 2%.
Based on our outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to be comparable to sales achieved in the first quarter of 2011.
Thank you.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Bob for his closing comments.
Thanks Bob.
As I mentioned earlier I'm quite pleased with our 2011 financial and operational accomplishments.
We achieved organic sales growth of 5% and earnings per diluted share increased 8% on an adjusted basis.
We generated strong sustainable cash flow of more than $2.8 billion and returned significant value to our shareholders.
We meaningfully advanced our new product pipeline that's as strong today as it any time in our history.
We accelerated the pace of business development initiatives that complement our current businesses leverage our capabilities and provide enhanced growth in the future.
And culturally we continue to respond to an evolving and demanding environment with new strategies aimed at enhancing our commercial operational and scientific effectiveness while continuing to focus on maximizing growth opportunities across the portfolio and managing costs throughout the company.
As a result throughout 2011 we strengthened our foundation and we remain very confident in the long-term growth prospects for our company.
We plan to expand upon this later this year when we host an Investor Conference in Chicago.
Additional details will be made available from Mary Kay to all of you in the coming weeks.
So with that thank you and let's now open up the call to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Bob can you update us on your plans for upgrading the old L.A.
fractionation facility? And tell us how that plays into your guidance for 2012.
Yes this is Bob Parkinson Mike.
Let me kind of kick this off and then Bob and Mary Kay can augment my comments.
As you know we continue to see very steady long-term growth and demand for plasma-based therapies including IG.
And our estimates are that market demand continues to grow and certainly this strong mid single-digit range over time.
We continue to make very good progress in transitioning manufacturing to new L.A.
frac.
I think last year we had the majority of our production now move to new L.A.
frac.
But obviously given our strong pipeline of new products our current plans include utilizing capacity.
As we discussed before the old L.A.
facility at least for some number of years saw.
So as a result of that we need to shut down old L.A.
to make the necessary investments to upgrade the facility so we can keep it in play over the longer term.
And we plan on doing that really in the beginning of the second half Mike of 2012.
We haven't defined a specific date.
That will be early in the second half.
In the meantime we've been able to adjust the scale of our operations successfully within the existing global manufacturing footprint between new L.A.; Vienna; Rieti Italy and through yield improvements and flexibility in the global network.
We've been able to respond appropriately to demand.
Now beyond keeping old L.A.
frac in commission as we've discussed before given expansion of IG indications the continued strong growth of plasma proteins over time we have initiated a greenfield development process for a new site.
We haven't arrived at a final decision in terms of sites.
Allegedly expect to do that shortly and certainly would be in our position in our Investor Conference this fall to share more specifics in terms of the overall capacity demand for plasma proteins the role that the new facility the greenfield site will play in that over time.
So that kind of covers kind of the overall situation.
But specifically early second half of the year we'll take old L.A.
out of production to make the necessary upgrade.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And so Bob is it efficient to wait until the second half so that you can build inventory in the first half of the year? And then how does taking it down the second half impact your ability to launch site 2? Bob why don't you comment on the inventory build intent [ph] ? That's a good question.
Yes absolutely.
As you know we've been running very tight on inventory and in fact with very strong demand for our product periodically experiencing backorders.
With Octa returning to the market the expectation is that we'll be in a better position to start building some inventory in advance of the shutdown in the back half of the year and be in better shape.
That way that will allow us to maintain supply and support some modest growth as we indicated in our guidance.
And I would say from a cost perspective very modest impact to cost in 2012.
Some impact to '13 but I would say a slight headwind nothing significant.
So we're comfortable we'll be able to take it down do the necessary upgrades and get it back up in production in 2013 and support future growth very nicely.
Research Division</strong> So coming back to it how does that impact the ability to really launch HyQ and go after CSL's business? Well I think our approach initially with HyQ given that is -- this is a paradigm change in treatment is to have a controlled launch ensure that those patients and treaters that first go on the product understand how to administer it appropriately build a good track record and good word of mouth amongst the community and then drive the momentum going forward.
So again our expectations for HyQ for 2012 are modest in any case but we certainly expect to build a strong foundation so that we can gain some momentum in '13.
And we'll have the production available to support that moment as we go forward.
And Mike I'd also add that Octapharma in terms of our guidance we've actually eliminated the $100 million of benefit we received in 2011 so that the guidance of low-single digits if you excluded that $100 million benefit would be in high-single digits which is faster than the market growth.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
Let me just ask one question to Bob Hombach again.
The first quarter guidance is -- reflects flat to low-single digit EPS growth.
Can you just provide a little bit more color on why the first quarter EPS growth would be lower than the balance of the year? Yes a couple of factors there.
The first quarter tends to be a lower quarter from a margin perspective and certainly given where FX rates are at the moment that certainly poses a bit of a headwind for us as we go into the first quarter here.
And really FX from a headwind standpoint will be there for most of the year as we indicated in our prepared comments.
But as we get through the first quarter as we annualize out the impact of the divestiture we did book revenues in the tune of about $50 million to $60 million related to the multisource generic business in the first quarter of last year.
That will annualize after the first quarter and have a bit more of a normalized growth rate beyond that.
David Lewis of Morgan Stanley is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple questions for Bob Hombach.
Bob just real quickly on cash flow you're guiding to cash flow from operations up year-on-year but there are some pretty significant hits this year specifically in pension as well as the deliverables related to COLLEAGUE.
Can you just help us understand sort of your net-net? How you think underlying cash trends are trending into '12? And when we see sort of a normalized cash quarter you think in 2012? Yes.
Until we get the COLLEAGUE consent order done we won't see a normalized quarter until the third quarter.
We're targeting -- July is when the due date is to finalize that.
So the amount of cash we have assumed out the door related to COLLEAGUE in 2012 is slightly higher than it is in 2011 and so those are comparable year-over-year and aren't driving a difference.
You're right.
We did have a pension contribution in early 2011 that we're not expecting to make a pension contribution in 2012.
Nothing else really material to discuss around the overall working capital and cash flow assumptions.
Again our guidance we said exceeds $3 billion so we'll see how things play out.
But generally I'm very comfortable with how we've managed the inventory and DSO situations in a very tough environment particularly DSO.
You did see some slight deterioration year-over-year but certainly nothing dramatic and it's one we're very focused on managing going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then maybe just 2 quick ones here.
Bob one more financially and one for Bob Parkinson.
Just on the $0.20 $0.25 for currency and pension can you just give us the relative breakout there between pension and currency or specifically just what the pension expense alone is? Yes and maybe I'll spend a bit of time on this because I think it's relevant for a lot of other folks as well.
So pension is as we projected $0.09 of a headwind year-over-year.
And so looking at the residual of $0.16 that's kind of the midpoint of our estimate of the impact of foreign exchange.
Now historically we've talked about FX being a fairly muted impact at the bottom line for the company a combination of having natural hedges and the use of financial hedges and a bit of a portfolio effect in the emerging markets force over time.
And in fact if you look at 2011 despite volatility where a tailwind for us in the front half of the year and a headwind in the back half we end the year with approximately $0.03 of a net impact on FX on the full year 2011.
Favorable.
Yes.
And so net-net not much of an impact to speak of on the base of $4.31 of earnings.
But as we move into 2012 clearly we're projecting a much more pronounced impact.
And maybe I'll just take a minute here and kind of walk everyone through the drivers because I think this is important.
As we've talked about regularly Baxter has about 60% of our revenues outside the U.S.
We've increasingly highlighted for investors that now slightly more than 20% of our revenues come from emerging markets.
And in fact emerging markets have been growing 2 to 3 times the rate of developed markets over the last 5 years.
So the mix of our business certainly has shifted towards emerging markets to a much greater degree.
As we've highlighted in the past for developed markets we have the ability through natural hedges given our manufacturing footprint which we have in places like Europe and Canada and Japan Australia and so on.
We have some natural hedges there but also we utilize financial hedges in those developed markets.
Now I would pause here to say as we've talked about in the past our pipe policy we hedge 80% of our projected exposures.
And by the nature of hedging when you're looking 12 to 18 to 24 months out you have to be careful in your projections to ensure that you don't get yourself in an overhead situation hence the 80% with a 20% buffer.
But what that does mean is we do have some residual exposure muted but some residual exposure in the developed markets.
As we said in the past with emerging markets we do not hedge.
We do not utilize financial hedges and we have modest natural hedges in some manufacturing facilities in Latin America Eastern Europe and so on but nothing near the degree we have in the developed markets.
And so our bottom line drop to exposure on the emerging markets is much more leveraged.
So to frame that exposure for you then looking at it by region so within Latin America from an operating profit perspective that would be exposed to foreign currency think of that in terms of $300 million to $400 million of annual profit.
And that's primarily Brazil Colombia and Mexico.
For Eastern Europe which is primarily Russia Poland and Turkey again about $300 million of operating profit on an annual basis.
And then in Asia Pacific and there we would exclude Japan Australia New Zealand and China because of the stability of the currency so all of Asia excluding those 3 is another roughly $300 million of operating profit on an annual basis.
So you add that up.
That's $900 million to $1 billion of profit exposed to currency in emerging markets.
And as you've seen there's been quite a bit of volatility and given where we're sitting today and where rates are today relative to where they were on average in 2011 if you assume an 8% to 10% weakening across that basket of emerging market currencies that's $80 million to $100 million of incremental exposure that we're factoring in here.
And you add to that the slight 20% residual impact from the developed markets that goes unhedged and that's how we get into this kind of $0.15 to $0.18 range of FX exposure.
Now as you would imagine given the volatility we've assumed somewhat conservative rates relative to where market rates are today.
There's been of bit of a run-up here in the last few days but given the volatility I hesitate to call it very conservative.
And so that's the picture.
But if I step back and think about as a large U.S.
multinational corporation in thinking about the long run being along the emerging markets whether it's from a growth perspective or currency perspective is exactly where we want to be.
We continue to see great opportunities there but in times of financial crisis like this where the correlation between those currencies and the U.S.
dollar is all going one way it creates this kind of outsized exposure that we're having to factor into our guidance here for 2012.
So thanks for bearing with me but I think it's important that people understand the breadth of the issue for us.
Research Division</strong> I will -- just maybe one more quick one for Bob Parkinson.
And Bob there's been a lot of concerns here in the quarter regarding European austerity.
You've talked a lot about old Europe pressures.
I guess we've been surprised about where that pressure's coming from.
I think it's a little different than where the investor sees within your plasma business versus your injectable and your nutritional business.
Can you just sort of talk to us in the way you're see the pressure and which businesses for Baxter are proving to be more robust? And then where -- which businesses are seeing sort of more pharmaceutical-like pressure? Yes.
I mean so the negative impact of the austerity measures first of all is just kind of what I call general softness David and underlying demand.
But these are the kind of things we see globally.
So surgical procedures and things of that nature are somewhat softer than what's been reflected historically.
So now we'd run across virtually all our businesses certainly even our IV business and so on and so forth.
But the other pressure that's probably more pronounced and is more associated with our BioScience business would be pricing pressures with governments who clearly are under the gun to implement austerity measures.
And given healthcare spend and well-large item that represents on national budgets and so on we continue to see governments virtually unilaterally implementing various pricing actions and that impact is more pronounced in things like say biosurgery where people are making trade-off decisions in terms of clinical options that they have but also most of our BioScience products which are more expensive.
So as an example countries like France implement actions in terms of taking prices down.
It's a haircut David.
So it's not as pronounced as what you would see with some of the tender actions I would say on hemophilia because encouragingly we haven't seen the expansion beyond the Anglo markets of the tender activity for hemophilia.
But -- so we think we've captured in our guidance for next year those known pricing actions that will be taken on a country-by-country basis.
We also think we've reflected kind of the underlying softness of demand.
But I think we have to be cognizant of the fact that given the extreme austerity measures and pressures that exist that unlike the U.S.
governments in Europe most notably really have a history of implementing unilateral actions for which there's not a lot of control.
We think we've captured it but like I say given the environment I think we have to be cognizant that there could be more there.
And by the way this is an ongoing thing.
I mean this is -- it's why I talk about dealing with the new environment in our company in our culture and so on.
This isn't something that's going to pass through this year in  -- or through the end of 2012.
It's going to be with us.
David I would just add that what we included in our 2012 guidance was what we had discussed throughout the fourth quarter of about $30 million to $40 million related to austerity measures.
That's pretty balanced between both BioScience and Medical Products.
I'd just highlight that the majority of the impact is really coming from vaccines within the BioScience business and within Med Products.
It's really between IV therapy where our nutrition products are being impacted and then some impact in renal.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can walk through the impact of M&amp;A on the guidance.
I know you've provided some perspective with respect to dilution at the time you announced the deals.
But how much of the dilution that you've provided then is either going through GAAP or ongoing earnings? Bob go ahead.
Yes.
So within the guidance that we provided the incremental dilution is about $0.05.
And a couple things I'd note one is we did take about $0.01 roughly in Q4 here because we did close the Baxa acquisition a little earlier than we thought.
So some of what we were projecting for '12 occurred in '11.
And then as we've looked at this further there are certain aspects of the transaction costs that were likely to special out going forward.
But the big chunk of this really is noncash amortization related to a deal premium that you have to run through.
In our case we'll go through cost of goods sold and that's about $35 million of incremental headwind that's going to run through margin here.
So again about $0.05 incremental but we did take $0.01 roughly in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as I look at the Plasma Protein business the issues about timing of imports in China I think you had talked about that last quarter as well a new product the delay on a large tender for PD Factor VIII in Brazil.
Are those issues that we should think about as being ongoing for the next several quarters? Or will those normalize at some point whereby that business gets back to sort of stable underlying growth on a reported basis? Yes.
Certainly Brazil for sure is a timing issue and we're hoping to continue to accelerate into China.
Without them it becomes -- it is a great growth opportunity.
So yes you should see normalized growth rates here in 2012 for that category.
Although I would mention David that tenders tend to be volatile and we can see shifts from quarter-to-quarter so just to highlight that.
David the one thing I would add to the China situation there's been local action by the Chinese government to further scale back some of their local plasma collection operations in the country.
So this importation of albumin in China would appear to be something that is going to be sustainable for the near future certainly over the next few years I think given some of the local issues they manage through.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the new products Bob in your prepared remarks you talked about SubQ both capturing share from your competitors as well as converting some of your own business.
When we think about things like HyQ and some of the other products that you’ll launch through the end of '12 and into '13 should we think about those more share capture market growing cannibalistic? How do you sort of rate that? It will be some of the each.
Over time it will be -- it should translate into both share gains but I would say also at a price premium.
And as Bob pointed out hopefully when we get approval between then and at the end of the year we're going to have a very controlled launch understand what the receptivity of product is which then will titrate the kind of the marketing objectives between share gain pricing and so on recognizing in the near term managing through supply of IG.
But the value in HyQ should be manifested in both share gains and pricing.
Rick Wise of Leerink Swann is online a question.
Research Division</strong> Can I start with gross margin? Bob you talked about gross margin being essentially flat for the year.
But could you talk about it -- how should we think about the quarterly flow and then particularly as it relates to old L.A.
shutdown temporary shutdown.
Should we assume second half gross margins are lower? Can you -- and maybe if you could help us think through that.
No.
I mean I do think that old L.A.
in and of itself given that it's back half that will take it down and how that rolls through our P&amp;L.
As you know there's a bit of a delay given the long lead time of that.
So most of that impact will actually impact 2013 but again it's a slight impact.
It's not that significant.
And so I wouldn't expect anything unusual quarter-by-quarter for margin with the exception of FX.
So as you know we talked about FX as a tailwind in our Q2 margin in 2011 and then it snapped back to a headwind given the dramatic move in emerging market currencies.
Because there is a dichotomy in terms of how margin affects -- FX affects our margin between the developed markets where we have natural hedges and financial hedges.
That tends to mute the margin impact but as reported sales come down that can actually result in a higher reported margin percentage.
But on the emerging markets side because it's more highly leveraged and we don't have the financial hedges or the natural hedges in place that tends to be more of a straight drop-through and so it really does matter which currencies are moving which way here between the developed markets and emerging markets.
So the one caveat to my comment really is that the tailwind in Q2 and the headwind in Q3 versus where we're at here with 2012 in our initial guidance.
That would be the only tweak.
But no I don't think there's anything dramatic there.
Yes Rick I'd add that I think Bob mentioned earlier our Q1 gross margin is expected really to be flat to 2011 Q1.
And Q2 generally we do see a higher margin really due to the mix of our sales which is benefited by the FSME vaccine which is very high margin.
So typically Q2 is our highest gross margin quarter of the year and then in Q3 and Q4 it moderates a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
If I could turn to the plasma market you've talked about some of the market dynamics but it seems like as we look at 2012 it's a lot -- the outlook is a lot different than a year ago.
Grifols Talecris now combined.
I mean 2 questions.
Can you talk about the dynamics of the consolidation? The Octapharma $100 million you've taken out.
Are you seeing them on track to actually do that? Or is that a conservative assumption? And maybe a little bit about collections and supply demand.
I'd appreciate it.
Now let me -- Rick this is Bob Parkinson.
Let me take the first part and maybe you could address Bob collections.
And so I really don't want to comment in terms of competitive response and so on.
I know there's been a lot of changes in the market frankly as a result of what we've seen.
Clearly Octapharma has gotten a lot of the business back already that we gained from them last year.
Whether our assumption is conservative or not is yet to be seen.
But I think it is fair to say that most of the volume that we gained will get lost back over time to them okay? Yes.
And Rick the way I would think about that is that given how the market break down for us in the U.S.
where about half of our sales are in kind of the hospital acute episodic use versus the chronic space.
Our focus particularly with SubQ and then with HyQ is really going to be grow out the chronic space.
And so with that differentiation we think we have great opportunities there.
And where they play today given their 5% concentration in the -- which is kind of a suboptimal product relative to what most other competitors have with a 10% concentration likely they're going to play in the more price-sensitive hospital space in any case.
So for us it's about directing product to those parts of the channel that we think we have the best opportunity to win.
And if that means some of the price-sensitive accounts we lose then so be it.
So it's more of how we're focusing on where we want to drive growth in the future than trying to fight it out with them hospital to hospital.
What was your question Rick on inventories again? Research Division</strong> It was sort of supply demand.
I mean given the weakening economy your collection's growing.
Just wondering how you see the -- just that -- the background there for Plasma Protein.
Actually the economic environment in the area of Plasma Proteins in general certainly in IG frankly we haven't seen -- little to no effect really in terms of underlying demand.
So I think in terms of the projection of market growth both in '12 and going forward beyond that very consistent with what we've communicated before I would say strong single digit mid-single digits.
And as for the total market and obviously with the early encouraging feedback on our SubQ product the hopeful launch of HyQ and then indication expansions with MMN and so on over time it's clearly our aspiration to grow this business at a faster rate than the overall market.
But overall Rick pretty stable.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America Merrill Lynch is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Can you hear me okay? We can Bob.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just 2 quick questions one on the Analyst Day upcoming and then another on your recent press release on Alzheimer's and the futility analysis that was done.
On the futility analysis I was wondering if you could just comment a little bit more specifically about what we should and should not read into that analysis and the 20% threshold.
It's my understanding that relates specifically to safety and says nothing about efficacy related to that 20%.
Is that the right way to look at it? I just want to clarify the point because it has impacted the stock.
Bob let me -- as Mary Kay mentioned at the outset Dr.
Norbert Riedel's with us this morning.
I'm going to ask Norbert to respond to your question on this.
Go ahead Norbert.
Okay so maybe just for a little bit of context the Phase III trial that is ongoing has about 390 patients enrolled.
Patients are on therapy for 18 months.
And the futility analysis was done on a 120-patient part of that trial that has already completed 18 months on therapy.
And the Alzheimer's consortium who we worked with to conduct this trial had a statistical group determine the parameters of the futility analysis for it to be truly within the spirit of our futility analysis and not become de facto in interim analysis.
And that's where they set the cutoff for the assessment.
The assessment was done and says that there is a better than 20% probability of reaching the endpoint the primary endpoint defined for the trial.
And there's also no indication from a safety point of view as to why the trial should not proceed.
Therefore the recommendation that the trial should really proceed as planned and our communication that we will be initiating a second conservatory trial with the exact same trial design.
So specifically answering your question I did not expect a safety signal or a safety concern primarily because immunoglobulin GAMMAGARD is used and has been used for many many years in primary immune deficiency and has a very well defined and also would say a very favorable safety profile.
So safety was not really the issue but it was looked at anyway by the DSMB.
But it was about a probability assessment that we will indeed be able to achieve the primary endpoint.
And so I'm encouraged by that.
I think it supports also the Phase II trial data that we have seen.
It supports our hypothesis that a multifactorial disease like Alzheimer's disease will likely benefit much from a multifactorial treatment approach like the complexity of the immunoglobulins that we offer these patients.
And I think it just overall continues to make me cautiously optimistic that this might indeed be a way of going after treating the disease.
Research Division</strong> And can you just kind of remind me of the primary endpoint of the study? The primary endpoint is 2 well-defined endpoints that are generally used in the space of Alzheimer's disease.
One is an assessment scale that is a cognitive function assessment scale that is used and the other is an overall function of the patient that has to do with activities of daily life and so on so parameters that we have selected together with the FDA and that are consistent with endpoints in Alzheimer's trials typically look for.
What's your question on Investors Day then Bob? Research Division</strong> Yes on the Investors Day just some thoughts on specific timing and just things that you're going to be covering on that day that you think that we should be aware of in terms of the meeting and things that we should preparing for? Well in terms of the specific time and day Mary Kay will be out to all of you shortly.
We're nailing that down.
It will be this fall okay? So -- but when Mary Kay within what time frame? Yes within a week or 2.
Within a week or 2 we'll get you all the specifics so in terms of the logistical part of it.
But what's our objective? As we traditionally have done is to give you a longer-term view of where we see our company going.
And one of the reasons as I've commented before that we have not had an Investor Day for a while I think is really largely a result of kind of the external environment and recognizing the volatility that existed.
Candidly we want to get a little better line of sight both in terms of our operating plan for 2012 as a baseline but to get our arms around some of the moving parts.
So I think you can interpret the fact that we're scheduling that as positive in terms of our sense that we think we more definitively have our arms around where we're going and so on.
And so it's a bit of I think a sense of confidence as you gathered from my prepared comments.
We continue to be very confident in the long-term outlook of the company.
And we understand all of you have been waiting for a while to get a sense of something beyond the immediate year that we're operating in and so that's really the primary objective in terms of what's going to drive the growth of the company going forward and really at what rate do we see revenue growing out over the coming years as well as projected earnings growth and so on.
So we look forward to getting together with everybody.
Larry Keusch of Morgan Keegan is online with a question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering Bob if you might just -- I know we spent some time on Octapharma but maybe just from a global perspective just help us understand sort of what you're seeing on price globally.
Again I understand you don't want to I guess like compete in the most price-sensitive countries or hospitals in the U.S.
but just what you're doing? I'll just comment to some degree maybe not satisfying you specifically.
But from our perspective I mean obviously we're seeing fairly stable prices in terms of what we charge our customers around the world.
I'll kind of leave it at that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then obviously emerging markets are already a big proportion of your business.
There's a lot of reasons to believe that and Bob Hombach mentioned that they're clearly the right place to invest and this is where you want to go long term.
I think you've sort of thrown out 30% as kind of as a percent of sales of where you think these markets can go.
Can you sort of just remind us of how you're thinking about when you might kind of reach that bogey and how we should be thinking about just the margin profile as the mix of emerging markets gets bigger? Let me make a couple of comments and then Mary Kay and Bob can add to this.
I mean first of all this will be an area of focus at our investor conference this fall.
I think we'll hone in provide a little more structure and definition on the opportunity that we see long term associated with emerging developing markets.
I think the number that you cited clearly is a reasonable aspiration that we may be able to get to within a -- say within a 5-year period of time to give you a little of framework.
In terms of profitability actually interestingly if you look at say pretax operating margin as a percent of sales in these markets it actually aligns fairly closely with what we see in developed markets.
Obviously the cost of doing business in not all but many of these markets is much less.
And also we're supporting this growth through overhead structure.
Whether it's here in our corporate offices or in our regional offices that can be further leveraged.
So I don't see over time a dilution to the profile of our P&amp;L as we grow emerging and developing market revenues at a faster rate than the rest of the company.
So that's probably – I don’t know Mary Kay or Bob if you want to add to that...
Yes.
I was just going to say I mean we've tended to enter these markets over time in the IV or renal space but the opportunity to have these economies move up the scale and start devoting more of their GDP towards healthcare some of our higher-end products particularly biologics become more attractive.
And so the opportunity to increase margin through further penetration of the biologics portfolio and the higher-end products within our Med Product space like some of our nutrition and anesthesia products we actually see nice margin opportunities for improvement going forward there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay terrific.
And then just one last housekeeping item for Bob Hombach.
I don't know if I missed this on the call but CapEx spending for 2012 and how much is sort of contemplated in there for the improvements being made to the old L.A.
frac? And then also what are you assuming in your guidance for the R&amp;D tax credit? Yes I mean the R&amp;D tax credit for us is a fairly small item so not material.
As it relates to CapEx once again we're looking at about $1 billion.
That may go up a little bit pending the timing of when we launch the greenfield site that we've talked about for the plasma business but thinking about it at approximately $1 billion at this point is a good way to think about it.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to confirm -- sorry if I missed this in the beginning but your guidance does include both the Baxa acquisition and it does it include Synovis? I know that hasn't closed yet but...
Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in total what was the total dilution from both of those deals that's included within the adjusted number? That was in the adjusted number.
We talked about $0.05 incremental in '12.
We took about $0.01 in Q4 here withholding backs a little bit early.
So that's the number.
As I mentioned there are some onetime costs related to Synovis as a public company that we'll think about specialing out but think about $0.05 again almost exclusively noncash amortization that's required by purchase accounting that runs through margin.
Research Division</strong> And earlier I thought you had said that that was running through cost of goods sold.
Is that correct? Yes the aftermarket yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
and then I guess Bob just a bigger picture question.
I know biosimilars or something that in the past you had kind of shied away from.
Obviously you just announced a recent deal and there seems to be a little bit clarity.
Can you just maybe expand about your thoughts on biosimilars and just kind of where you see Baxter participating over the longer haul? And then any specifics on products that you could just...
Yes.
Well Kristen I mean with the deal with Momenta we think this could be a meaningful opportunity for our company.
And historically it wasn't so much that we shied away from it.
I think we always felt fundamentally we were probably as well positioned as anyone to participate in the market.
Clearly there was and continues to be to a great degree some ambiguity in the regulatory pathway.
But if you look at Baxter's expertise and biologic manufacturing all these are drugs that are administered -- that are injectable which plays to a Baxter strength in terms of packaging formulation technology and so on.
And obviously given our global channel presence again I think we're -- we've always been as well positioned as anyone.
The reason we've been historically kind of noncommittal was one lacking definition on the regulatory pathway.
But with the collaboration with Momenta candidly we think we have potentially a fundamental differentiator here at least on the 6 compounds that are part of the deal that we did with Momenta.
Not to get into a lot of detail on their technology but at least with one biologic they have a proven track record of applying their technology bringing it through regulatory approval and getting it launched to the market.
And we're excited about the prospects of potentially being able to minimize the clinical development spend given their ability to characterize these biosimilars more effectively and accelerate the time to market as well as lower cost to market as well.
So with the Momenta deal I think that was really the key thing that's kind of pushed us over the edge to say okay we had to be able to leverage the other Baxter strengths and take advantage of this is as a significant opportunity.
So we're quite excited about it.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess congratulations on stealing Jean-Luc Butel from Medtronic.
Anything different that we can expect from him with international business? Well I don't think so.
He knows -- since Ludwig moved the Ludwig Hantson moved from the international role to run BioScience which I would say he's doing an outstanding job with our pipeline and clinical development throughout BioScience.
In the meantime the regional presidents in Europe Latin America and Asia Pacific have reported directly to me.
I think that's worked fine but I think that as we discussed in the call this morning given the opportunity in emerging developing markets there's probably very few people in the industry that have Jean-Luc's expertise and depth of experience in operating in these markets around the world.
And I think he will bring real value add to and direction to our international regions so as well as depth of experience in our senior leadership team overall.
So we couldn't be more pleased to have Jean-Luc come on board in a few weeks.
Our final question comes from Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I’ve got one question on some of your new products in IVIG that you mentioned reason and forthcoming launches of SubQ and HyQ and the offsetting impact on the return of Octa.
Can you give us a sense of how SubQ has impacted your business so far? Understanding HyQ is significantly more differentiated SubQ also seems to be having a positive effect.
Do you think it's -- if you can quantify that is it $10 million or $50 million on an annualized basis or 1% or 2% incremental to your business? And then maybe at a higher level looking at both SubQ and HyQ do you think that they reach a level in 2012 to offset the $100 million you've talked about giving back to the Octa? Or any kind of color would be great on that.
I've got one follow-up.
Yes.
Well let me just maybe give you a general response and then maybe Mary Kay or Bob can maybe fill in some of the details.
I mean obviously we're encouraged by the early response to the SubQ.
I mean we are seeing a conversion of patients from competitive product as well as conversion of Baxter products on the IV form as well.
So we're -- and with the low injection-site reaction in terms of side effects which is very -- which is in the label and that's been validated I think in terms of actual clinical experience.
Having said that I think it's too early maybe to quantify Matt how much of the Octapharma loss could be offset with the 10% SubQ.
But I think it's fair to say that some of it will be -- I'll stop there.
Bob or Mary Kay do you want to add to that? Yes.
I mean very excited about how SubQ has gone so far.
But again I would think about 2012 as a little bit of an unusual year given taking the old L.A.
facility down.
It's going to constrain our ability to grow faster than what we've described here to some degree.
And so it's really about seeding the market for what we think will be a very successful HyQ launch.
And so it will be more over time than an immediate impact in '12 in terms of what it might do for our business but clearly it is being well received.
And again it's the fastest growing segment of the PID market so we're very happy to be participating in it.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then lastly on recombinants with Q4 we saw a pretty significant step-up in the second half of the year.
And I wanted to get a sense as you head into 2012 we got your growth expectations in your prepared remarks.
But Dr.
Riedel's been talking about the peer-reviewed paper on inhibitor formation published last summer.
Can you give a sense -- and maybe Doctor Riedel can answer this -- as to how that paper -- what kind of impact has that had on the thinking across coalitions and folks in the community? And are you starting to see an impact? Or do you expect to see an impact whether it's in tenders or utilization? Well maybe I'll start with just touching on the paper that you referred to the meta-analysis which really for the first time provides a rather encompassing comparison between B-domain deleted Factor VIII and full-length Factor VIII.
And I keep pointing out that our ADVATE as the goal standard of therapy in hemophilia A is a full-length recombinant Factor VIII that is manufactured completely in the absence of any proteins added at any point in the process of making the finished product.
And I have always believed that a full-length Factor VIII most closely mimics what is naturally occurring when you have a Factor VIII.
And the data in the meta-analysis suggests that B-domain deleted VIII or Factor VIII has a much higher incidence of inhibitor formation about a 7 fault [ph] higher incidence than the full-length Factor VIII.
And with respect to what we call high titre antibodies which are the most problematic for a hemophilia patient and 11 times higher incidence rate.
And so we have been clear with the results that our goal continues to be to optimize ADVATE therapy.
Our longer-acting Factor VIII is fundamentally an ADVATE molecule with a minor tweak that we put on the molecule and continues our approach to working with full-length Factor VIII.
And I think when you look at just the market share of B-domain deleted Factor VIII today it is actually very small and so I believe that given the choice that full-length Factor VIII is very attractive therapy.
And as I mentioned it is much closer to the natural way of dealing with bleeds or stopping the bleeds.
And fair to say I think that we're starting to see this resonate more with treaters and with patients both the Profi Label as well as the meta-analysis.
But that's part of our challenge in '12 is to drive that into the market and make it happen.
So that's what we're focused on.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Sean.
Good morning and welcome to our First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer; and Dr.
Norbert Riedel Chief Science and Innovation Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thanks for calling in.
We're pleased today to announce our financial results for the first quarter and also provide you with an update on our full year 2012 outlook.
As you all saw in our press release that was issued earlier this morning EPS of $1.01 per diluted share exceeded our guidance and increased 3% versus the prior year on an adjusted basis.
First quarter sales after adjusting for FX increased 4% and exceeded our sales growth guidance of approximately 2%.
Our strong financial position continues to provide us the flexibility to make investments to grow our core product portfolio expand further in developing and emerging markets advance our pipeline and pursue opportunities that will position us for the future all with an eye toward delivering enhanced value to our shareholders.
R&amp;D increased 10% this quarter as our sustained focus on innovation has afforded us with a meaningful new product pipeline that's as strong today as any time in our history.
And I remain encouraged with the progress we're making which has resulted in a number of recent accomplishments that I'd like to briefly highlight this morning.
First of all within our leading hemophilia franchise we've achieved a number of milestones.
As you know ADVATE was approved in December by the FDA as the only recombinant Factor VIII prophylactic treatment for both children and adults.
This approval was based on a study demonstrating that ADVATE significantly reduced median annual bleed rates from 44 bleeds when treated on demand to 1 when treated prophylactically and included the approval of a new dosing schedule that offer some patients the choice of fewer infusions versus the current standard prophylaxis regimen.
The initial response from customers has been very positive as evidenced by the strong double-digit growth of ADVATE in the United States during the first quarter.
We remain encouraged regarding the long-term growth prospects of our hemophilia franchise as we've secured both competitive gains and conversions from on-demand therapy to prophylaxis and will continue to invest in additional marketing activities to promote our competitive advantage and drive awareness of this expanded label.
Also in hemophilia we announced the initiation of a Phase I clinical trial of BAX 855 a longer-acting PEGylated Factor VIII therapy based on the full-length ADVATE molecule.
The Phase I results will serve as the foundation for advancing this important program through clinical development and determining whether BAX 855 can offer a treatment regimen requiring fewer infusions than ADVATE.
In our regenerative medicine business we initiated a Phase III trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of an individual's own CD34+ stem cells to increase exercise capacity in patients with Chronic Myocardial Ischemia or CMI.
CMI is one of the most severe forms of coronary artery disease causing significant long-term damage to the heart muscle and disability to the patient.
It's often diagnosed based on symptoms of severe chest discomfort that do not respond to conventional medical management or surgical interventions.
In addition in the quarter we received approval for TISSEEL fibrin sealant for vascular surgery providing a broad hemostasis label in the United States.
This is an expansion beyond previously marketed indications and represents a significant opportunity for this franchise going forward.
In Antibody Therapies we filed GAMMAGARD LIQUID for use in treating multifocal motor neuropathy or MMN representing our first neurological indication in the United States.
If approved GAMMAGARD LIQUID will be the first and only licensed immunoglobulin therapy for MMN in the U.S.
where we've been granted orphan drug status by the FDA.
This will complement the approval we received last year for MMN in Europe.
Also we initiated a second global Phase III trial evaluating the use of GAMMAGARD LIQUID in treating patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease following a successful futility analysis that was conducted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board in January.
This trial complements our first Phase III trial which is fully enrolled and will conclude by the end of 2012.
We've also announced an extensive study for those patients who completed 18 months of treatment in the first Alzheimer's Phase III trial and meet the clinical -- or the required inclusion and exclusion criteria.
This study is intended to provide additional data related to the longer-term safety efficacy and pharmacoeconomic impact of immunoglobulin treatment in these patients.
These achievements that I just mentioned depict just a handful of the programs in our pipeline that will present great opportunities for Baxter in the years to come.
And we look forward to updating you on further R&amp;D achievements as the year unfolds.
Before I turn the call over to Bob in just 1 minute I'd like to comment on the announcement this week regarding HyQ and also the one issued this morning regarding the site selection of our new plasma fractionation facility to support future growth of plasma proteins.
First we remain very positive regarding the long-term growth prospects of our plasma-based specialty therapeutics business including GAMMAGARD LIQUID FLEXBUMIN FEIBA ARALAST and GLASSIA.
As you know many of these therapies are used in treating diseases that continue to be both under-treated and under-diagnosed globally.
Our continued confidence stems from our global market position the safety and efficacy profile that our products command and our unique differentiation strategy focused on new delivery options expanded indications and broadening access to care in developing markets.
While we're committed to supporting global market demand in the near term we've selected a site in Covington Georgia for a new state-of-the-art plasma fractionation facility to support longer-term growth.
Construction will begin this year and will include operations supporting plasma fractionation purification fill-finish and a testing lab.
Commercial production is scheduled to begin in 2018 with the new fractionation facility adding up to 3 million leaders of new capacity annually when fully operational.
The investment at the Georgia site is expected to total more than $1 billion over the next 5 years and provide us with the flexibility and necessary infrastructure to expand even further in support of additional global market needs.
Second earlier this week as you know Baxter and Halozyme announced that the FDA has requested additional information to complete its regulatory review of HyQ.
The agency is requesting additional data on the use of hyaluronidase for chronic administration specifically in relation to the HyQ Biologics License Application.
Just to be clear there were no safety concerns cited by the FDA with respect to immunoglobulin therapy which as you know has a well-established safety profile and has been approved for chronic administration for patients with primary immunodeficiencies.
Baxter and Halozyme intend to work closely together to further understand the FDA's request and develop a plan to provide additional data.
In addition we expect to participate in a future meeting of the FDA's Blood Products Advisory Committee to obtain clarification on next steps.
In light of this request we now expect a delay in the anticipated regulatory review and approval timeline which could delay the launch of HyQ beyond 2012.
As you know the change in the anticipated timeline for approval of HyQ is not material -- financially material to our 2012 guidance.
And of course as we obtain additional information we'll continue to update all of you on our plans and expectations.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions you might have on that or other topics during the Q&amp;A this morning.
But first I'd like to ask Bob to review our first quarter financial results and also our guidance for 2012.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the first quarter excluding special items increased 3% to $1.01 per diluted share which exceeded our guidance range of $0.98 to $1.
As mentioned in the press release our GAAP results included a net after-tax benefit from special items totaling $19 million of income or $0.03 per diluted share for costs and adjustments related to recent business development transactions.
Specifically we recorded a special after-tax charge totaling $34 million or $0.06 per diluted share primarily related to the upfront cash payment to Momenta for the development and commercialization of biosimilar compounds.
This charge was more than offset by a gain of $53 million or $0.09 per diluted share resulting from an adjustment to estimated milestone payments associated with the 2011 Prism Pharmaceutical's acquisition.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the first quarter before turning to our financial outlook for 2012.
Starting with sales worldwide sales totaled $3.4 billion in the first quarter and increased 3%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 4% which exceeded our sales growth guidance of approximately 2%.
Better-than-expected sales materialized in a number of key product categories in both Medical Products and BioScience and we also benefited from the Synovis acquisition which closed earlier than planned.
As a reminder the benefit from recent acquisitions which includes Synovis and Baxa was partially offset by the divestiture of the U.S.
multisource generic injectables business.
The net benefit of acquisitions and divestitures on sales in the quarter was less than $20 million.
In terms of individual business performance beginning with BioScience.
Global Bioscience sales of approximately $1.5 billion increased 4% in the first quarter and excluding foreign currency sales increased 5%.
Within the product categories recombinant sales rose 4% and totaled $533 million.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 5% as double-digit growth of 10% in the U.S.
was partially offset by the impact of the Australian tender.
Excluding the impact of the tender recombinant sales increased 8%.
As Bob mentioned we're very pleased with the strength of our U.S.
business where we are deriving benefits associated with the new expanded label of ADVATE.
Moving onto plasma proteins.
Sales in the quarter were $316 million and increased 3% versus the prior year period.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 4%.
U.S.
sales declined 3% due in part to lower plasma-derived Factor VIII sales resulting from the continued conversions to recombinant therapies and lower sales of albumin as we aggressively manage our global supply.
This resulted in strong growth in plasma proteins outside the U.S.
driven by double-digit growth of albumin particularly in China and robust demand for FEIBA.
In Antibody Therapy sales of $388 million increased 4%.
Excluding foreign currency sales were up 5% as we continue to experience very strong demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID particularly in the U.S.
And we remain well positioned given our successful launch of our SubQ therapy where we continue to see momentum in share gains given its favorable tolerability profile and low infusion site reaction rate.
In addition as you know Octapharma returned to the market on a global basis last year.
As previously communicated the estimated benefit of the Octapharma impact in the first quarter 2011 was approximately $30 million.
Excluding the benefit from the prior year growth in Antibody Therapy was 14% on a constant currency basis significantly higher than estimated market growth suggesting that we've retained market share on a global basis that was gained during Octa's absence.
In the first quarter sales in regenerative medicine which includes our BioSurgery products totaled $154 million and increased 10%.
Excluding foreign currency sales grew 11% as a result of double-digit growth of FLOSEAL and the incremental benefit from the Synovis acquisition of just over $10 million.
Finally revenues in the other category totaled $71 million in the quarter and declined 4%.
Excluding foreign currency sales declined 3% as growth of vaccines were offset by lower third-party plasma revenues.
In Medical Products global sales in the first quarter totaled $1.9 billion reflecting an increase of 3% on both the reported and constant currency basis.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $588 million and were comparable to the prior year period.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 1% as U.S.
PD growth accelerated to mid-single digits supported by solid patient gains.
This momentum was offset by lower HD revenues.
IV Therapies sales advanced 10% to $472 million.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 12% driven by higher demand for IV Therapies in the U.S.
strong performance globally of our nutrition franchise and the benefit of the Baxa acquisition with sales totaling approximately $35 million.
Sales in the Global Injectables category of $505 million declined 2% on both the reported and constant currency basis.
Excluding the net headwind of $30 million from Baxa and the impact of the U.S.
multisource generic injectables divestiture organic growth was in mid-single digits on a constant currency basis.
Performance was driven by our pharma partnering and compounding businesses as well as significant growth of certain injectable therapeutics like cyclophosphamide a generic oncology drug.
Infusion system sales totaled $208 million and declined 1% on both the reported and constant currency basis.
This expected decline was a result of lower access set sales as we complete the transition to Spectrum and near completion of the COLLEAGUE consent order.
Finally our anesthesia franchise posted robust sales of $138 million reflecting a 17% increase versus the prior year.
Excluding foreign currency sales were up 18%.
While growth was enhanced by easy comparison to the prior year we did experience very solid demand for both Sevoflurane and Suprane on a global basis.
This growth in volume more than offset continued pricing pressures for generic Sevoflurane.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin for the company was 50.8% in line with our expectations and lower than last year's gross margin by 20 basis points.
Margin expansion resulting from mixed benefits was more than offset by headwinds including incremental pension expense austerity measures and dilution from business development transactions.
SG&amp;A totaled $743 million in the quarter and increased 4% versus the prior year period as a result of incremental pension expense promotional and marketing expenses and investments we're making to enhance our global presence particularly in emerging and developing markets.
These investments were partially offset by business optimization savings and aggressive management of discretionary spending.
R&amp;D spending accelerated 10% to $236 million as we continue to fund and advance a number of late-stage programs including investments in our leading hemophilia franchise Alzheimer's program and our Phase III adult stem cell trial.
The operating margin in the quarter was 21.9% 80 basis points below the prior year due to lower gross margin and higher SG&amp;A and R&amp;D that's expected to enhance future sales growth and profitability.
Interest expense was $18 million compared to $10 million last year.
This increase can be attributed to interest expense associated with the $500 million debt issuance in December of last year and lower interest income.
Other income totaled $4 million in the quarter compared to expense of $11 million last year driven primarily by the impact of foreign currency.
The tax rate was 21.7% in the quarter which is higher than our prior year due to a change in our earnings mix and slightly higher than our full year expectation.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted EPS was $1.01 per diluted share an increase of 3%.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $413 million and increased 11% versus last year.
Capital expenditures totaled $239 million which compares to $198 million in the first quarter of 2011.
DSO ended the quarter at 58 days an increase of 2 days versus the prior year entirely due to an increase in international days outstanding.
Inventory turns of 2.3 were essentially unchanged from the first quarter last year.
And lastly during the first quarter we repurchased approximately 10 million shares of common stock for $575 million or on a net basis approximately 7 million shares for $421 million on track to achieve our full year objective of net share repurchases totaling approximately $1 billion.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the second quarter and full year 2012.
First for the full year we have narrowed our guidance range and now expects earnings of $4.49 to $4.57 per diluted share.
By line item of the P&amp;L starting with sales we continue to project full year sales growth excluding foreign currency of 4% to 5%.
Given our current outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect currency to negatively impact the top line by 2 percentage points.
Therefore we expect reported sales growth which includes the impact of foreign currency to be in the 2% to 3% range.
We continue to expect full year gross margin rate for the company to be flat to modestly below the 2011 gross margin of 51.4%.
We expect SG&amp;A and R&amp;D to grow in low- to mid-single digits.
Interest expense is expected to total approximately $80 million and other expense including noncontrolling interests will be in the $20 million to $30 million range.
We assume a tax rate of approximately 21.5% flat with 2011 and now expect a full year average share count of approximately 555 million which assumes approximately $1 billion in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we plan to generate cash flow from operations of more than $3 billion which includes an outflow of approximately $250 million related to the finalization of the COLLEAGUE consent order.
Now to expand on full year sales assumptions for each of the businesses.
First on a constant currency basis we continue to expect Medical Products sales to grow in the mid-single digits.
This includes IV Therapies sales growth of approximately 10% which includes the benefit of approximately $120 million in sales related to the Baxa acquisition.
Anesthesia sales growth in high-single digits reflecting the strong performance in the first quarter.
Global Injectables sales growth in mid-single digits which includes the net benefit of Baxa sales totaling approximately $40 million and the divestiture impact of approximately $60 million.
Infusion System sales which are expected to decline approximately 5% and reflect a tough comparison for SIGMA as we complete the consent order later this year.
And lastly renal sales growth is expected to be in low-single digits.
For BioScience we project sales growth excluding foreign currency in the mid-single digits and there's no change to our original guidance by product category.
Our outlook includes recombinant sales growth in low-single digits reflecting the impact of recent tenders; plasma protein sales growth in mid-single digits; Antibody Therapy sales growth in low single digits which includes robust underlying demand and the impact from Octapharma.
I'd like to take just a moment to point out that in the second quarter we face our most difficult year-on-year comparison for Antibody Therapy as sales increased 21% on a constant currency basis.
And as you know we expect to continue to improve our inventory position in advance of our third quarter shutdown of the old L.A.
fractionation facility.
Therefore our expectations include an assumption that global antibody therapy sales will be lower in Q2 this year versus the prior year period.
Moving on to regenerative medicine.
We expect sales growth of approximately 20% which includes incremental sales from Synovis of approximately $75 million.
And finally the other category is expected to decline approximately 5%.
As mentioned in our press release for the second quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.10 to $1.12 and sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 3% to 4%.
Based on our outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect currency to impact sales by approximately 3 percentage points.
Therefore we expect reported sales to grow in the 0% to 1% range.
Thanks and now I would like to open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter international website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually James in for David.
My first question is on the new capacity plant in Georgia a couple points there.
One I think given the 3-million-liter capacity total spend in CapEx of $1 billion is a little bit more than we're expecting.
Can you give any details on -- whether that also includes additional purification capacity? And is that -- would that be able to -- could you expand that capacity beyond 3 million liters with the infrastructure that you're putting in place? Second 3 million liters actually seems a little bit less than we are expecting to meet your capacity needs over the long term.
Can you talk a little bit about your ability to bridge to that new facility with the existing capacity at the old and new L.A.
facilities? James let me -- this is Bob Parkinson.
Let me maybe kind of address your question at a higher level and then I'm going to turn it to Bob Hombach to take you through maybe some of the elements of the CapEx spending that we projected.
First of all just to back up a bit if you look at our current plans with old L.A.
putting it back in commission as well as some expansion opportunities at new L.A.
Vienna and Rieti we certainly feel that our installed footprint of capacity can support say 6% to 8% kind of growth over the next few years setting the stage then longer term for the capacity expansion that we announced this morning.
I would say the announcement this morning first of all is an expression -- I think represents our confidence in the long-term global growth of the Plasma Protein business.
A little bit of context over half the world's population remains undiagnosed and certainly under-treated for many of the conditions that are treated today with therapeutic proteins and being the world leader in this area the announcement this morning is really an investment for the long term and speaks to our confidence in the business.
As Bob will explain to you in a minute the magnitude of the investment represents more than the initial phase of 3 million liters but sets the stage for the kind of expansion over time that supports the kind of addition that I just described.
So with that as context Bob I'll let you maybe give a little more detail in terms of the breakout.
Okay? Sure.
Yes in terms of capacity and investments in capacity historically you've seen us both on additional capacity expansions on the existing footprint and I think others in the industry.
This announcement today represents a true greenfield site where we are going to be putting infrastructure in place in addition to and we were very careful to point this out in the press release it is fractionation capacity it is purification capacity and it is fill-finish capacity and an additional testing lab which is another requirement in the overall plasma fractionation process that we need to have in place.
So we are adding all elements in one location here whereas historically you may have heard additional capacity investments talk about in a piecemeal fashion.
As we look at this investment approximately 30% of this investment relates to infrastructure.
And as Bob just mentioned that infrastructure will support both this initial 3 million in capacity but also significantly more capacity in the future.
And by making the investment now it will position us to add that additional capacity in the future at a lower marginal cost and in a much more timely fashion than this greenfield site is going to take for us to bring out.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> That absolutely addresses my question very helpful.
And then the second is just on recombinant.
Obviously very strong growth in the U.S.
this quarter.
I was wondering do you think that represents true -- presumably that's growing faster than market at 10% figure.
Do you think that represents more patient share gains and that patients are switching to ADVATE or does it represent higher dosing and maybe a little bit more use of prophylaxis among your existing patients? I'm not sure at this stage we know.
I think that it probably represents some of each of those elements that you just described James.
So I think it's too early to be able to quantify which of those variables is the most pronounced.
But we know specifically that on a patient-by-patient basis that we are gaining conversions one from competition and then two expansion and use of ADVATE given the broader label.
So as we stated in our prepared comments early start but it's quite encouraging.
Research Division</strong> And maybe I can just get one more in on SubQ.
I mean even if HyQ is a little bit delayed I think one of the things that's interesting is that your non-HyQ SubQ product has been doing a little bit better than we expected.
Would you be able to quantify either from a share or dollar perspective what the run rate there is now? Well probably I think too early to quantify.
I mean again as we commented previously and I would reiterate today James we're very encouraged by the market response of our 10% SubQ.
As you know that our SubQ is the lowest reported local site reaction of any of the SubQ products by far and that's been really validated through use in the marketplace.
Beyond that quantitatively Mary Kay I don't if there's anything you want to share that might be helpful? Yes I think we're off to a great start with SubQ.
We continue to see patient gains both competitively as well as conversions from IV to SubQ James and our assumptions currently include sales approaching -- on a global basis because we do also have a product in Europe that we sell -- of about $100 million in 2012.
And I appreciate your question.
I mean obviously we'll talk more about this I'm sure with follow-on questions about the HyQ program the delay and so forth.
But your point is a good one because the reality is with a 10% SubQ we got a great product.
We've got something to promote we're getting traction in the marketplace and so growth in this segment is not exclusively dependent on the short term of the timing approval for HyQ.
So that's an important point for everyone to understand.
Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I guess I will follow up on just kind of any more specifics that you might have on HyQ.
Maybe just helping us frame what your initial expectations are with the FDA's request and maybe some broad timelines if you can.
Yes I don't know if we can define the timelines Kristen.
And there's still -- we're still engaged with a discussion with the FDA so I don't think we want to be premature.
Maybe you'd want to -- I'll ask Dr.
Riedel.
Norbert why don't you comment on this if you could so we can provide some help to Kristen.
Maybe just as a follow-up to what we have announced at the beginning of the week and to just ground everyone the study we have done in the administration of immunoglobulin therapies for HYLENEX or HyQ is a study where patients were treated immunoglobulins for more than 1 year.
In the extension that we have ongoing actually some patients are approaching 3 years and we have not seen any serious or non-serious adverse events that would have actually given us any concerns in the clinical study.
We have actually talked about the results as recently as last month and we presented the longer-term studies.
And the concerns of the agency are really around the long-term chronic use of the hyaluronidase that is part of this therapy and the administration of immunoglobulin.
Immunoglobulin therapy as you know from our indication in PID is indicated for long-term chronic use.
So the concerns that the agency has raised are around hyaluronidase in long-term chronic use.
I can't really give you a lot of specifics or more specifics than what we have shared only because we are in dialogue with Halozyme and the FDA as to how to address the concern and what kinds of studies we would propose to address those concerns.
But I will of course keep you posted on that as soon as I have a clearer picture and better definition.
But that's really all I can share with you at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess your expectation is to go before a panel.
Am I reading into it then or should I read into it that that seems at least to be positive and that I would imagine you would be able to give some of this data from the extended study.
So I guess how should we think about the panel just in terms of possibly helping maybe to support an approval? So the Blood Products Advisory Committee is the panel that you are referring to.
It will actually be involved in looking at the proposed studies that we will put forward as to how to address the concerns of the agency.
So I think you're right.
I think that's a positive.
And actually it's also really a pretty normal course of action and a regular path so there's nothing particularly unusual about it.
And that's the ground plan that we will actually have the panel and discuss the study design with the panel.
Research Division</strong> Actually can I ask one other question just on the gross margin? Given the recombinant strength in the quarter I was a little surprised that we didn't see a little bit more upside there.
Can you maybe just walk through in any granular detail the moving parts there? Yes what I would say is first and foremost Q1 is always the lowest quarter from a margin standpoint for us in most cases.
So again this was in line with our expectation.
There were some positive mix benefits as we mentioned.
There are some headwinds built into 2012 that we've talked about quite a bit.
As we mentioned we remain very confident in the full year guidance of flat to very modestly down which implies that the gross margin will increase in subsequent quarters.
I'd also highlight that the one aspect of seasonality that's pretty consistent in our results is Q2 tends to be a higher margin quarter for us primarily due to the fact that we have sales in Europe of our FSME vaccine particularly encephalitis.
And so that's a high-margin product that tends to augment the Q2 margins.
So we're certainly expecting margin to improve as we move throughout the year with Q2 again likely to be the highest of the quarters and again very comfortable with the full year guidance.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could comment just on HyQ and the extent to which the FDA review how that influences the international approval timelines and what the latest thinking was there.
So as you know we have actually submitted our dossier in Europe and in Canada as well and it's under review there.
And we are in dialogue with those agencies but there's really nothing in particular or specific that I need to comment on or can comment on because it's an ongoing review process and it's taking likewise its normal course of action at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe a follow-up on the CapEx questions for Bob.
The $1 billion how should we think about that getting layered into the cash flow statement? Is that something that you're swapping on existing CapEx for that or that's a true gross or net addition of $1 billion spread evenly over the next several years? That will be -- that is incremental in the sense that -- we always invest in our plasma footprint and as we've mentioned we've got additional capacity coming online in Italy as an example.
So there's an existing base of expense of spending that's going on even today.
Given the nature of bringing a new plant up though the spending tends to be a bit more front-loaded because you need to get the facility in place the equipment in place build a conformance lot submit stability studies and all of those things.
So I would say 2013 and 2014 are going to be the peak years.
And from an incremental standpoint of where we're sitting today I think about it in kind of $400 million of incremental spend in each of those years with some flex between '13 and '14 to accommodate this additional spending.
But what I would add is given our strong cash position our strong cash flow that we expect to have going forward our very strong balance sheet and flexibility within our current credit ratings this additional investment is not going to constrain our ability to continue to do the things we've been doing which is reinvesting in other parts of our business turning significant value to shareholders in dividends and buyback and doing select bolt-on acquisitions that augment our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly maybe Bob Parkinson you can provide just some context for the acceleration in R&amp;D spending.
I mean this has been a pretty consistent theme at Baxter certainly since you've been there.
I think R&amp;D spending is up over 50% since you joined the company.
Maybe -- the HyQ disappointment on Monday I think does raise some questions just about the return profile of some of that R&amp;D.
Could you talk to us how we should think about the return on that investment and when we start to see a little bit more top and bottom line contribution from those investments that you've made? Well first of all I don't think anyone should associate the disappointment and the delay in HyQ with the broader pipeline.
In my prepared comments this morning I cited just a few examples of many in terms of how we're progressing in all of our businesses on multiple fronts.
I mean the ramp-up in R&amp;D since I've been here as we've discussed many times is a reflection of at the end of the day what's our most important strategic priority which is the ability to innovate because that's really the only sustainable business model in this industry in my view.
And again as I've commented a number of times I try to be as objective about this as I can.
I really believe our pipeline today is the strongest that it's been in the history of the company.
The profile of what's in our pipeline are largely products that are higher margin than the overall company clearly that represent a better growth trajectory with primary focus on core franchises hemophilia being one renal and dialysis being another and then so forth.
So in terms of the impact obviously we all know HyQ was the near-term opportunity to have some material effect on our sales growth.
But I mean things that we've already got approved and launched from the 10% SubQ we talked about the expanded label on ADVATE.
Sometimes we don't typically associate this with R&amp;D spend.
But these are all programs that required R&amp;D investment and the highest payback and the most significant return are on those things that further enhance the position of franchises or businesses that are already established.
There's just a couple of examples.
We hope to get the approval on the MMN indication and so on.
So I'll stop short of playing back the entire pipeline but let's not associate the shorter-term disappointment on HyQ as a reflection of the broader pipeline because the strategic priority is as I described.
Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So Bob maybe I can just ask a question on HyQ because I do want to focus on it and I think there are probably 2 questions.
I think the first question is what does Hylozyme have available in terms of its data set both clinical and nonclinical that you think could be a value to the FDA? That the FDA has not already seen? And second this response by the FDA has certainly surprised the company.
This is an issue we've discussed over the last couple of years the FDA's comfort with the chronic usage of hyaluronidase.
So why do you think this surprised the company and what was missing in the back and forth with the FDA that had this come out last minute? Well I mean look the one thing we all know is it's difficult to speculate on the motivation or rationale of the FDA.
I think it is fair to say that we were surprised certainly disappointed.
Norbert I'm going to have you address the first part of Mike's question in terms of Hylozyme data what do we have and so on recognizing that we're limited to talk about it until we get further down the path in our dialogue with the agency.
Right.
So Mike -- because we have talked about this before.
You and I have talked about this before.
I was very much focused on the actual clinical trial results that we saw in our first Phase III trial with in HYLENEX in PID.
And as I mentioned in my earlier comments we have seen a very clean efficacy and safety profile in that study not only within the Phase III that was submitted to the agency but also with respect to the extension that we have ongoing where patients have been on therapy for almost 3 years now.
So clearly I have and continue to have a high level of confidence that the clinical trial data is very strong data and we published that and you referred to that in your write-up.
With respect to the agency's concern it's really about introducing the recombinant human pH 20 or hyaluronidase as a long-term chronic administration of a molecule and questions or concerns around that.
We are truly working with Hylozyme on a daily basis to identify what data exists and what data the agency is looking for and how to best design studies around those data.
At this point that's really all I can tell you.
And as soon as we have that better defined we will of course communicate that.
That's the current status.
Research Division</strong> Bob does the potential pushout of Hylozyme and I'm not talking about 6 months but -- of HyQ the pushout maybe beyond 6 months making this a longer pushout.
Does that potential change your thinking at all on M&amp;A in terms of appetite not only for the -- you've talked about wanting to do a series of smaller deals but potentially doing anything larger? No it doesn't.
Our priorities in terms of M&amp;A are consistent with what we've -- I don't see any correlation between the 2 at all.
Just a straight out answer to it.
Research Division</strong> I understood that.
I think the question from the street would be if the targets you have internally for re-accelerating revenue growth and a lot of that's going to be driven by the pipeline.
If those targets get pushed out does that -- would that lead you to pursue M&amp;A more aggressively or sooner than you would have otherwise? That's the thinking behind it.
I don't think so.
I think our outlook -- and obviously we look forward to get together with everybody at the investor conference in October to talk about this.
I mean let's just back up and put this in perspective.
We're disappointed in the delay of HyQ.
Only a handful of analysts I think yourself included Mike had even quantified what the long-term impact was or longer-term impact.
I think the average incremental revenue associated with this in 2014 -- so in other words 2 years post the launch it was somewhere between $100 million and $200 million.
I don't want to minimize that.
That's not insignificant.
But in the context of a company of our size particularly -- just to be very candid with you in view of the reaction of the market this week is a total disconnect okay? The other point I would make is assuming this represents just a delay -- as you all know because we talk about capacity fractionation capacity all the time the incremental value of HyQ is more price-related than it was volume-related because to be very candid with the 10% SubQ which I commented robust market growth opportunities globally we can sell as much IVIG as we can make independent of whether we have HyQ approved or not.
So again I don't want to minimize the incremental value primarily associated with the	price.
But if the composite or consensus average of incremental sales 2 years out was somewhere between $100 million and $200 million that puts it in a quantitative perspective vis-à-vis the reaction to the market this week.
So you know what? I'll just leave it at that.
Research Division</strong> I think that was perfect.
Let me ask you just a couple other pipeline follow-ups.
One can you just talk about ADVATE approval in China? Is that coming as well as from other emerging markets I know you're waiting on? And second where are you on timeline for filing your recombinant Factor IX product? Okay.
Well the ADVATE -- Mary Kay help me.
I mean Russia and China are still on track this year.
Yes still on track.
On track Mike second half of this year no change at this point to our expectations for both China and Russia.
And in regards to the recombinant Factor IX we are looking -- that's also on track to be completed here and filed in the second half as well.
Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just -- not to beat a dead horse here on your points you just made Bob on HyQ but just -- I want to be clear about one thing and I think you talked about this in the past.
Let's say hypothetically it was going to be a $100 million or $200 million product in 2 years.
Is it also fair to say that your thinking was you get into the SubQ market with SubQ and then you add to that drive mix drive some incremental share possibly but to some degree penetrate your SubQ business over time with HyQ? Yes.
And clearly that was the original strategy and it still is based on the timing of approval of HyQ.
I think the difference is originally when we launched the 10% SubQ we saw it as a catch-up to be then competitive with other SubQs on the market okay? In other words a catch-up launch to set the stage for HyQ.
What we've learned as I commented we have the superior SubQ product right now which has a lot more traction and opportunity than what we had earlier anticipated.
So the strategy remains the same to over time upgrade to HyQ when and if we get approval for HyQ.
But in the meantime we have more upside and opportunity on 10% than what we had estimated at the start if that makes sense to you.
Research Division</strong> It does.
And so there I'd look at that $100 million to $200 million number and I'd say "Well part of that was sort of an overlay on the existing business at that time." So yes I would agree with your earlier comments and those are very helpful.
One just point if I could on what the FDA has said or focused on in terms of the chronic use.
You mentioned I think clearly that there's no safety concerns for IVIG which is used chronically and widely.
Was there any observations or any blip in the data that the FDA had seen or focused on for hyaluronidase? Or is this a matter of routine that they've just decided to be more careful? Norbert? So I'm going to ask Norbert to comment on this.
Maybe I'll just expand on it just in the following way.
There was nothing in particular.
I think it has to do with and in a reasonable way has to do with the recombinant hyaluronidase being positioned for chronic long-term use for which it is currently is not indicated.
And I think the questions and concerns are all around that aspect of this therapy.
And keep in mind maybe as a follow-up to the earlier questions while our SubQ is positioning us extremely well in the space of this cloud of administration we have always looked at the HyQ as truly a transformational game-changing incremental improvement much beyond what SubQ does.
And so it's one of those pioneering programs in our pipeline that we think are highly promising but also in a way go down a new path with the regulators.
And therefore there's a little bit more uncertainty than there would be in a Factor IX or a Factor VII or a von Willebrand Factor which is a more straightforward -- maybe a life cycle management product development approach versus pioneering new ground.
And that also speaks to the pipeline being really balanced between life cycle management opportunities that are truly enhancing existing core businesses and new opportunities like HyQ like stem cells for which I think we need to make resources available.
Because that is our legacy of truly premium first-to-market innovations to our patients and customers.
If I was to draw conclusions from HyQ in general onto the pipeline and the productivity of the pipeline I think we'll be [indiscernible] in this place.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then one if I could just on -- Bob your comments on -- I think holding share obtained from Octa last year was sort of the math that you were doing with the $30 million benefit that you saw in the first quarter of '11.
When does that -- you'd sort of given -- if I recall correctly your guidance assumes that you'd surrender something like $100 million of gained share last year back to Octapharma as they got into the market.
It doesn't seem like that's happening yet or it -- from the numbers you're reporting I guess when does that turn into potentially edging up some of the expectations for the year? Well a couple of things.
As we pointed out in our prepared comments we are going to have a tough comp in the second quarter but we will see stronger growth in the third or fourth quarter.
But as we also mentioned because of shutting down the old facility extending its useful life and providing important flexibility going forward we are going to be constrained this year.
We have shifted product to meet market needs.
And so I didn't want to imply here that the specific customer-by-customer retention of share from Octa because different price points different geographies where they're stronger and so on.
But in aggregate stepping back and looking at the level of demand we're seeing for our product again augmented here with a strong uptick for SubQ in the -- 10% SubQ in the SubQ market we feel very good about how our share position overall has evolved.
And we have not competed to try to retain some of those more price-sensitive customers that we've talked about before that are likely targets for Octa's reentry.
Rajeev Jashnani of UBS is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just on the recombinants business there's obviously a robust result there in the U.S.
And I was just wondering if you could help us understand what we could expect there maybe in the U.S.
and x-U.S.
across the remainder of the year.
One quarter obviously was very strong but can we expect the same kind of growth across the balance of the year and maybe x-U.S.
declines widening? Or if you could throw out any other color there? Yes I mean recall that we're in the process of the Australian tender playing out so we're going to have tough comps throughout the course of this year on the international front related to the Australian tender which is going to murk up the picture here as we go forward.
Again we're very encouraged by first quarter results in the U.S.
and the reaction from both treaters and patients to the very strong data from the ADVATE label expansion and prophy indication for adults and so on.
But again it's early days.
So I would say we expect to be in good position to grow at least with the market here in the U.S.
throughout the course of this year.
But again we're going to have tough comps internationally and that's reflected in our global guidance for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I had one follow-up on the IVIG market.
I think there was a pretty healthy increase reported in the CMS database for pricing for the fourth quarter and I was just wondering if you could comment whether you saw that sustained over the first quarter.
No.
We've got to be careful here because as you know there's a number of dynamics that come into play with CMS reporting.
We've talked about the fact in terms of the contracting process here for 2012 with our customers in the U.S.
we had a very modest price increase certainly well below 6%.
And so that has to do with timing and how we report certain adjustments and rebates and following their rules and so on.
So I would not attribute much value to that 6% because that is not what we're seeing.
Mary Kay would you follow on to the other -- first part of the question? Yes I just was going to add Rajeev that in recombinants as Bob mentioned we didn't change our full year guidance at this point.
The Australian impact is about $60 million for the full year and that will pay out over the course of the year.
We'll have a little bit easier comps outside the U.S.
as we get into the back half of the year.
But just an example of the impact Australia has had international sales were flat in the quarter including the impact of Australia.
And x that they were up 6% in line generally with the market upgrowth that we're seeing and estimating.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America Merrill Lynch is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So first on HyQ.
I assume the FDA has seen the data approaching 3 years that you mentioned in your comments earlier? No.
The answer is no.
We have not yet submitted the data on the extension study to the FDA.
Research Division</strong> And how many patients are out beyond 1 year at this point? How many patients do you have that are out to that 3-year mark or close...
Just a few more than 50 patients that continue in the extension study and recall the Phase III study itself was just shy of 90 patients.
I think it was 87 -- no 56 I believe are continuing in the extension study.
Research Division</strong> So the data -- obviously we they've seen the 1-year data on all patients so you're going at some point present to them the incremental data here.
I'm just trying to frame the timing.
I know there's not much you can say on this but listening to the conversation you're talking about you're designing new studies and questions about chronic use.
It would seem to me that we should really be thinking about this in terms of an 18-month delay.
I mean from your -- at least.
I mean from your perspective is there a better scenario here that's possible from a timing perspective? Or is the 18 months that I'm using as a placeholder probably not a bad way of thinking about it at this point? Well truly I don't know what actually leads you to the 18 months that you are using.
I can only tell you that at this stage I really can't put a 3-year time frame around it because that will depend on not only the design of the studies but also the discussion with the FDA and with the advisory committee.
So it's truly too early.
But I do believe that we will be pushed out beyond 2012.
As I get closer to understanding what exactly needs to be done then I can help you with the timeline.
But at this point I would be speculating and I'd rather not do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question on plasma capacity.
Your guidance for this year is for basically low- to mid-single-digit growth in those businesses.
At what point do your capacity constraints ease? And one way to ask the question is if we look out beyond 2012 if the demand were there could you grow those plasma businesses more in that 6% to 8% type of area as we think about 2013? Again if the demand were there? So I'm just trying to get a sense as when you think these capacity constraints will ease? And is about high-single digits possible beyond 2012 if the demand warrants it? Well yes.
This is what I tried to comment on at the outset is with keeping up old L.A.
in commission and some of the other expansion initiatives we have we believe our installed capacity can support growth over the next few years let's say in the 6% to 8% range Bob? That's volume growth.
That's volume growth yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when specifically do the capacity constraints start to ease? Is that really not until the kind of beginning of 2013? Yes I would say kind of towards the middle of 2013 because as we've talked about we're taking old L.A.
down for 5 months towards the end of this year.
But with the plasma production cycles that you're familiar with of up to 6 months it's going to take into the second quarter before we've got it back up running and go through the process and have sellable product.
So I would put it as kind of middle of next year before that's online.
But as we also have mentioned we're bringing additional capacity on to the back half of this year in our Rieti Italy facility.
We are ramping up production this year and continuing to ramp up the utilization level in new L.A.
We'll take another step-up in early 2013 as well so that will alleviate some of the pressure here.
But I think really to be in the most robust situation it's middle of 2013.
But the 6% to 8% over the next few years is reasonable and that's IGs really.
Yes that's IVIG.
And albumin would have.
And other.
We'd be in better shape.
We'd be in better shape with albumin okay.
Our next question comes from Rick Wise with Leerink Swann.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things and I apologize.
I jumped on a little bit late.
Did you review any update on the home hemo product timing and when you're expecting to get that product launched and going? Yes.
Actually we did not Rick so it's a timely question.
So Norbert and Mary Kay you want to give the specifics? So the study is actually ongoing the clinical study and I would characterize it as patients on therapy really liking the therapy.
So since we restarted we have had no further issues to deal with and therefore our projected timeline remains for a CE marking in Europe in 2013 and for U.S.
launch in 2014 -- a U.S.
filing in 2014 I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> So filing -- U.S.
filing in 2014? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And that would take another -- if some of the things went normally that might take another year.
So it's 2015 if all goes well for a launch theoretically? It shouldn't take that long because we've -- but I'd rather not speculate on it.
So let's stay with filing and then see what happens thereafter.
Yes and Rick as we've mentioned in the past I mean we're as excited about the opportunities for home HD outside the U.S.
as we are inside.
And while we would love to have an approval in the U.S.
as soon as possible we certainly can make a lot of headway on this program by getting a CE mark and moving forward in those markets where today we have a well-established PD business.
There is a well-accepted approach to home treatment for dialysis in Europe and reimbursement rates are attractive.
And we still have 80% of our renal businesses outside -- PD business outside of the U.S.
So sometimes people lose sight of that.
So that's really the big opportunity in the short term Rick.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just 2 more questions and I'll let you pick and choose if you've discussed it before.
Just an update on the integration of med delivery in renal.
It sounds like we're pretty much done and so Bob I'd be curious to -- Bob Hombach I'd be curious to hear if there's further cost cutting beyond that? And last Norbert any update on the Alzheimer's program and Phase III data next reported milestones anything would be appreciated.
Okay.
So on the Medical Products integration front the way we characterized it up to this point this was a $75 million to $100 million cost opportunity for us over time.
We're probably 2/3 or more down the track of realizing that.
But there still are additional leverage opportunities in front of us over the next couple of years but the lion's share of it we have already baked into our expectations.
And Rick on Alzheimer's the first Phase III trial as you know will complete with the last patient out at the end of this year.
We still expect to have the data analyzed and available in the first half of 2013.
The second trial which we initiated after the futility analysis turned out to be positive has begun to enroll patients.
Sites have been initiated so we are off to a good start on the second Phase III trial.
Research Division</strong> And data presentations interim anything coming up the next 6 to 12 months Norbert? No.
I don't think so.
Your last question comes from Matthew Dodds with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On the new facility for plasma is it going to be similar to L.A.
because I'm just wondering why you might not want to try to tweak it a bit and see if you can get a little bit more yield out of IG? Actually the layout Matt we're going to take a little different approach more of a modular approach than we took in L.A.
I think that does several things for us.
One is to I think relative to the yield question you asked perhaps do a better job in terms of yield.
It also allows us to scale up beyond the 3-million-liter incremental capacity that we cited this morning in a quicker fashion if we choose to do that.
So the approach is actually quite different than what we took in L.A.
Research Division</strong> And then one final question on renal.
Internationally it grew I think about 1% and it looked like it was off a pretty easy comp.
Is there anything unique that happened that quarter? Or was it PD HD? Anything you can give me color on that? Yes Matt it's Mary Kay.
We did talk about this when we gave our guidance back in January that we did expect that given the Yako [ph] reimbursement.
That's a biannual every 2 year basically price reduction in Japan as well as we are seeing some of the EU austerity measures that we discussed which has for the full year a $30 million to $40 million impact over the total portfolio.
But there is a significant portion that's in renal as well.
So that will be an ongoing difficult comparison that we'll have going forward.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Kevin and good morning everyone and welcome to our Q2 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer; and Dr.
Norbert Riedel Chief Science and Innovation Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thank you for calling in.
We're pleased today to announce financial results for the second quarter and also provide you with an update on Baxter's full year 2012 outlook.
As you saw in the press release which was issued earlier this morning second quarter sales after adjusting for FX increased 4% and EPS of $1.12 per diluted share was in line with the guidance that we previously provided and reflected an increase of 5% versus the prior year on an adjusted basis.
Despite ongoing macroeconomic challenges we continue to have flexibility to make investments in our core product portfolio of critical therapies expand further in developing in emerging markets advance the pipeline and pursue opportunities that will position us well for the future and create long-term value for our shareholders.
Baxter continues to broaden its portfolio through investments in research and development and with business development initiatives aimed at enhancing longer term growth.
Some recent achievements include the following: First we gained FDA approval to market GAMMAGARD LIQUID as a treatment for multifocal motor neuropathy or MMN.
This is the first and only immunoglobulin treatment approved for MMN in the United States where Baxter has been granted orphan drug status and complements the approval received for this indication in Europe last year.
MMN represents Baxter's first neurological indication and further differentiates the GAMMAGARD LIQUID brand in the chronic care segment of the global immunoglobulin market.
MMN is associated with a progressive limb weakness mostly affecting the upper limbs which can lead to significant difficulty performing simple manual tasks.
We estimate that there are approximately 6 000 to 7 000 people worldwide with MMN.
And today immunoglobulin therapy is the first-line treatment for this debilitating disease.
As you know Baxter is also evaluating GAMMAGARD LIQUID for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
Earlier this week as I'm sure you know data from abstracts related to the ongoing clinical programs were presented at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference the AAIC meeting held in Vancouver Canada.
Dr.
Norman Relkin of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center and the principal investigator in the Alzheimer's trials presented 3-year follow-up data on the Phase II 24-patient study for the first time.
As you may recall the 18-month Phase II clinical results announced in April of 2010 represented the first study in Alzheimer's disease where all 3 measures cognitive functional and neuroimaging reported positive data that were statistically significant.
The Phase II study continued to treat 16 patients open label with GAMMAGARD LIQUID for a 36-month period.
Specifically 4 subjects who were treated with the optimal dose throughout the study period showed no change from their pretreatment baseline after 36 months on measures of cognition clinician's global impression of change and activities of daily living behavior and quality of life scales.
While these trials' results are encouraging the open label extension study included a very small number of participants.
The larger Phase III studies which are currently in progress will further assess the safety and efficacy of GAMMAGARD LIQUID in the treatment of the disease and we expect results from the first Phase III study in the first half of 2013.
Within our leading hemophilia franchise Baxter continues to demonstrate an ongoing commitment to scientific innovation and advancing treatment options for patients living with this hereditary condition.
According to the World Federation of Hemophilia more than 400 000 people in the world have hemophilia and 2/3 are currently undiagnosed or untreated.
As the global leader we remain focused on increasing access and advancing standards of care in improving treatment regimens.
Baxter's leading product ADVATE continues to be the gold standard treatment in the marketplace given its strong safety efficacy and convenience profile which remains a key competitive advantage.
We're encouraged by the acceptance of our new prophylaxis label as evidenced by the strong first half sales performance in the United States.
The new label includes an impressive reduction in annual bleed rates from 44 bleeds when treated on demand to 1 when treated prophylactically and also offers a new dosing schedule that provides patients the choice of fewer infusions versus standard prophylaxis.
In addition the approval earlier this week of the 4 000 IU dosage strength of ADVATE provides added convenience of single vial dosing for many adult patients particularly those on a dosing schedule of every 3 days.
Also during the quarter we received approval for ADVATE in China.
And we continue to work closely with the Chinese hemophilia community including both patients and treaters to provide access to care for this life-saving life-sustaining therapy.
It's estimated that there are 50 000 to 100 000 people in China living with hemophilia A with only a fraction of patients being actively treated.
Also in the area of hemophilia we recently announced an exclusive global agreement with Chatham Therapeutics LLC for the development and commercialization of potential treatment for hemophilia B utilizing Chatham's advanced recombinant gene therapy technology which has shown potential therapeutic benefit in early clinical studies.
A small independent study involving 6 patients using vector components of the Chatham technology was the topic of a 2011 article in The New England Journal of Medicine.
This collaboration will involve the next generation of this gene therapy technology which Baxter and Chatham will investigate through U.S.-based clinical trials.
This partnership complements Baxter's internal development of a recombinant Factor IX therapy where we remain on track to file for U.S.
regulatory approval before the end of this year.
As you may know hemophilia B is the second most common type of hemophilia and is the result of insufficient amounts of Factor IX a naturally occurring protein in blood that controls bleeding.
Hemophilia B occurs in about 1 in 25 000 males with approximately 4 000 people in the United States currently diagnosed with the disease.
Within the Medical Products business we successfully completed the COLLEAGUE replacement program and continue to focus on building upon Baxter's longstanding leadership in IV medication and fluid delivery.
Toward this end we finalized the purchasing -- the purchase of the remaining interest in Sigma International during the second quarter.
SIGMA Spectrum large volume pump provides advanced safety and clinician-friendly features and is a system that addresses both the clinical and economic needs of customers.
The pump is small and easy to use features technology intended to help reduce infusion-related adverse drug events offers wireless connectivity to simplify the transfer of data for updating drug libraries and uses Baxter's standard intravenous administration sets.
You may have also seen that the Spectrum smart infusion pump recently received top recognition in the large volume pump category of the 2012 Best in KLAS Awards: Medical Equipment &amp; Infrastructure report which represents the opinions of more than 4 500 hospitals and 2 500 health care clinicians and reflects a high level of customer satisfaction.
KLAS is a company that measures vendor performance and helps health care providers make informed technology decisions.
Lastly earlier this morning we announced the collaboration with the Sanquin Blood Supply Foundation in the Netherlands who will provide fractionation capacity for plasma-based therapies used to treat immune disorders hemophilia trauma and other clinical conditions.
Under the terms of this initial 10-year contract manufacturing agreement Sanquin will provide Baxter with plasma fractionation capacity beginning in 2014 and ramping up to approximately 1.6 million liters annually by the end of 2016.
This agreement along with our plans to build a new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Georgia positions us well to support future growth of plasma-based treatments.
In summary these highlights depict just a handful of recent achievements that present great opportunities for Baxter in the years to come and we look forward to updating you on further milestones as the year unfolds.
Now before turning the call over to Bob I'd like to provide a brief update on HyQ.
As you may recall in April Baxter and Halozyme announced that the FDA requested additional information to complete its regulatory review of HyQ.
Baxter and Halozyme have been working to address the agency's concerns related to HyQ and the long-term chronic use of hyaluronidase.
As anticipated and as part of the ongoing regulatory review process we do expect to receive a complete response letter from the FDA within the next few weeks and we will provide an update at that time.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on this or other topics during the Q&amp;A.
But with that I'd like to ask Bob to review the second quarter financial results and guidance for 2012.
And then when Bob concludes his commentary I have a few additional comments before then opening the call to Q&amp;A.
So Bob if you would? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the second quarter excluding special items increased 5% to $1.12 per diluted share which was at the high end of the EPS guidance range we had previously provided of $1.10 to $1.12 per diluted share.
As mentioned in the press release our GAAP results included a net after-tax benefit from special items totaling $42 million of income or $0.07 per diluted share for costs and adjustments related to recent business development transactions and certain financial reserves.
Specifically we recorded a special after-tax charge totaling $23 million or $0.04 per diluted share related to a global collaboration with Chatham Therapeutics for the development and commercialization of potential treatments for hemophilia B.
This charge was more than offset by a net after-tax benefit of $65 million or $0.11 per diluted share resulting primarily from adjustments to both the company's COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves and estimated milestone payments associated with the 2010 acquisition of ApaTech Limited.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the quarter before turning to our financial outlook for 2012.
Starting with sales worldwide sales totaled $3.6 billion in the second quarter and increased 1%.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 4% which was in line with our sales growth guidance.
As a reminder the benefit from recent acquisitions which includes Synovis and Baxa was partially offset by the divestiture of the U.S.
multisource generic injectables business.
The net sales benefit of acquisitions and divestitures in the quarter was approximately $50 million and benefited sales growth by approximately 130 basis points.
In terms of the individual businesses starting with BioScience global BioScience sales of $1.6 billion increased 1% in the second quarter.
And on a constant currency basis sales increased 4% despite a tough comparison to the prior year when sales increased 10%.
Within the product categories recombinant sales declined 1% and totaled $565 million.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 3% as double-digit growth of 10% in the U.S.
was partially offset by the impact of the Australian tender.
Excluding impact of the tender recombinant sales increased 6%.
As Bob mentioned earlier we're very pleased with the strength of our U.S.
business where we continue to realize benefits associated with the new expanded label of ADVATE.
While there may be some stocking in the U.S.
channel during the first half of the year we are pleased to see strong underlying demand for ADVATE which is growing in high single digits.
Moving on to plasma proteins.
Sales in the quarter were $364 million and were flat to the prior year period.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 4% driven primarily by growth of ARALAST for the treatment of hereditary emphysema and FEIBA a therapy used in treatment of inhibitors.
In antibody therapy sales of $376 million declined 1%.
On a constant currency basis sales were up 1% slightly ahead of our expectations.
Sales in the U.S.
advanced 3% as we continue to be supply constrained and experienced strong demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID particularly given the successful launch of our SubQ therapy.
This growth is partially offset by lower sales outside the U.S.
as we continue to optimize our global supply in light of the L.A.
facility shutdown planned for the third quarter.
I'd also mention that a contribution from Octapharma last year of more than $30 million in sales presented a difficult growth comparison.
Excluding the benefit in the prior year growth in antibody therapies was in double digits.
In the second quarter sales in regenerative medicine advanced 18% to $174 million.
On a constant currency basis sales rose 21% as a result of double-digit growth of FLOSEAL and the incremental benefit from Synovis of just over $20 million.
Finally revenues in the other category totaled $87 million in the quarter and declined 5%.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 3% driven by sales of our FSME vaccine and ongoing revenues related to our influenza collaboration in Japan with Takeda.
In Medical Products global sales in the second quarter exceeded $2 billion reflecting an increase of 1%.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 4%.
And the net benefit from acquisitions and divestitures of $25 million favorably impacted sales growth by 120 basis points.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $635 million and were comparable to the prior year period.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 4% as global PD growth accelerated to 6% supported by solid patient gains around the globe.
This momentum was offset by lower HD revenues.
Sales in the Global Injectables category of $539 million increased 7% and on a constant currency basis sales increased 9%.
Excluding the net impact of $10 million related to acquisitions and divestitures organic growth was 11% on a constant currency basis.
Performance was driven primarily by our pharma partnering and compounding businesses and significant growth of certain injectable therapeutics like cyclophosphamide a generic oncology drug.
IV therapy sales advanced 6% to $479 million.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 10% driven by higher demand for IV therapies in the U.S.
and strong performance globally of our nutrition franchise which includes a $35 million benefit related to the Baxa acquisition.
Infusion system sales totaled $209 million similar to the first quarter and declined 10%.
On a constant currency basis sales declined 9% as a result of lower access set sales.
Finally our anesthesia franchise posted sales of $132 million reflecting an 8% decline versus the prior year.
On a constant currency basis sales declined 6% as a result of a difficult comparison to the prior year and lower U.S.
sales due to wholesaler inventory adjustments.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin for the company accelerated to 51.8% in line with our expectations and reflecting an improvement from the first quarter of 100 basis points.
However this gross margin rate was modestly lower than last year as mix benefits were more than offset by a number of headwinds we've previously discussed and the impact of foreign currency which had a negative impact of 50 basis points.
SG&amp;A totaled $789 million and increased 3% as a result of recent acquisitions incremental pension expense and promotional and marketing initiatives within BioScience and in international markets to enhance our global presence.
These investments were partially offset by a benefit from foreign currency business optimization savings and aggressive management of discretionary spending.
R&amp;D spending advanced 15% to $276 million as we continue to fund a number of projects including investments in our leading hemophilia franchise Alzheimer's program and our Phase III adult stem cell trial and it also reflects continued focus on a variety of early-stage initiatives that augment our late-stage pipeline.
In addition I'd highlight that R&amp;D investments this quarter included approximately $20 million of accelerated and discrete items including various milestone payments and expedited supplies of products for use in a number of ongoing clinical trials.
I'd also point out that the second quarter represents the highest level of R&amp;D spending on a quarterly basis that we expect for 2012.
The operating margin in the quarter was 21.9% 160 basis points below prior year driven primarily by the negative impact of foreign currency and the significant ramp-up in R&amp;D.
Interest expense was $22 million compared to $15 million last year.
This increase is due to incremental expense associated with the $500 million debt issuance in December of last year and lower interest income.
Other income totaled $24 million in the quarter and compared to expense of $13 million last year.
This benefit is a result of favorable foreign exchange impact on balance sheet positions which totaled approximately $10 million and a benefit of $15 million related to minority interest.
The tax rate was 21.2% for the quarter and on a year-to-date basis is in line with our guidance.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted EPS was $1.12 per diluted share an increase of 5%.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $943 million and increased nearly 50% versus last year.
On a year-to-date basis cash flow from operations exceeded $1.3 billion which is $350 million higher than prior year as a result of lower pension contributions and the collection of aged receivables in Spain during the quarter which totaled approximately $200 million.
Capital expenditures of $264 million compares to spending of $210 million in the second quarter 2011.
DSO ended the quarter at 52 days a reduction of more than 5 days versus the prior year driven primarily by the recent collection in Spain.
Inventory turns of 2.4 are somewhat lower than last year and comparable to the first quarter.
Lastly on a year-to-date basis we've repurchased 17 million shares for $960 million or on a net basis 13 million shares for $788 million on track to achieve our full year objective of net share repurchases totaling $1 billion.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the third quarter and full year 2012.
First for the full year we now expect earnings of $4.50 to $4.56 per diluted share.
By line item of the P&amp;L starting with sales we continue to project full year sales growth on a constant currency basis of 4% to 5%.
Given our outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect currency to have a negative impact on the top line of approximately 3 percentage points.
Therefore we expect reported sales growth which includes the impact of foreign currency to be approximately 2%.
We now expect the full year gross margin rate for the company to expand modestly versus last year's rate of 51.4%.
We expect SG&amp;A to grow in low to mid single digits and we now expect R&amp;D to grow in mid to high single digits reflecting the strong first half growth and modest growth in the second half.
We continue to expect interest expense to total approximately $80 million and we now expect other including noncontrolling interest to be an income item totaling approximately $10 million.
We continue to expect a tax rate of approximately 21.5% flat with 2011 and expect a full year average share count of approximately 555 million shares which assumes $1 billion in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we plan to generate cash flow from operations of more than $3 billion which includes an outflow of approximately $250 million related to the finalization of a COLLEAGUE consent order.
Now to expand on the full year sales assumptions for each of the businesses which remain unchanged from previous quarters.
First on a constant currency basis we continue to expect Medical Products sales to grow in mid single digits.
This includes IV therapy sales growth of approximately 10% including an incremental benefit of approximately $120 million related to the Baxa acquisition; anesthesia sales growth in high single digits; Global Injectables sales growth in mid single digits which includes the net benefit of $20 million related to acquisitions and divestitures; infusion systems is expected to decline approximately 5%; and lastly renal sales are expected to grow in low single digits.
For BioScience we project sales growth on a constant currency basis in mid single digits.
Our outlook includes recombinant sales growth in low single digits reflecting the impact of recent tenders; plasma protein sales growth in mid single digits; antibody therapy sales growth in low single digits; regenerative medicine sales growth of approximately 20% which includes incremental sales from Synovis of approximately $75 million.
And finally we expect the other category to grow approximately 5% which includes anticipated milestone payments in the second half of the year related to our U.S.
influenza vaccine program.
As mentioned in our press release for the third quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.12 to $1.14 and sales growth on a constant currency basis of 5% to 6%.
Based on our outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect currency to impact sales by approximately 5 percentage points.
Therefore we expect reported sales growth of approximately 1%.
Thanks.
And I will turn the call back over to Bob for his closing remarks.
Thanks Bob.
Before we open up the call to Q&amp;A just a few closing comments.
First of all I would tell you I'm very pleased with our results during the first half of the year which included sales and earnings that were in line with the guidance that we've provided on a quarterly basis.
We also in the first half continue to build momentum with our internal R&amp;D and new product pipeline as well as external business development activities.
While the global macro environment is going to continue to pose obstacles and health care companies are facing unprecedented complexities given the medically necessary nature of our products our diversified health care model and strong market positions we're confident in our ability to drive improved performance over the long term.
As you all know we have an investor conference that's scheduled for October 9 here in Chicago.
And at that time we'll provide more insight into a number of R&amp;D programs across our businesses and we'll also provide a longer term outlook on the financial performance of the company with particular focus on our major franchises the growth drivers and strategic business opportunities that are critical to our future success.
I'm also looking forward to the opportunity to share with all of you why I'm so positive about the future of our company.
So with that thank you and let's open up the call to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on Baxter International's website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bob Hombach I was hoping you could go into a little more detail about the guidance for the balance of the year.
If I look at the $1.12 to $1.14 earnings that you're providing for the third quarter but essentially keeping the full year guidance unchanged at the midpoint -- but the sales guidance for the third quarter likely represents the highest growth that we'll see for years.
Just talk about the negative leverage that -- and how that flows through the P&amp;L and if there are any discrete items in the third quarter that are negatively impacting the earnings numbers.
Well yes.
David I would say first off I wouldn't say that the third quarter is the highest sales growth.
I think you'll see comparable sales growth in the third and fourth quarter in order to get to the full year organic growth guidance that we've projected.
I think the single biggest difference between third and fourth quarter in terms of acceleration at the bottom line is really just timing of some key tenders in emerging markets primarily Eastern Europe and Latin America that just from a shipment timing perspective are going to land in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
Also from an FX standpoint there has been a lot of volatility here lately.
And so I think as we look at the third quarter in particular since that's more near term here I would say there may be a touch of conservatism in the third quarter number as well.
And David it's Mary Kay.
I'd also add just on growth margin.
We do expect margin in the third quarter to be lower than Q2 but still show expansion over the prior year call it roughly 50 basis points.
And Q4 will be our highest gross margin quarter again projecting something in the 50-basis-point improvement year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Bob Parkinson on HyQ.
I think you're probably going to expect a lot of questions but you sort of opened yourself up in -- on the complete response letter which you expect to get in a couple of weeks.
Could you maybe provide a little more detail on what we should look for in that letter how the dialogue with the agency has gone since the April announcement whether you still think you need a panel et cetera where from here? Yes.
Let me maybe respond to that David and then I might ask Dr.
Riedel to comment as well.
We've had a lot of back and forth with the agency since our last call last quarter on this.
As I commented in my prepared comments we do expect to receive a complete response letter from the FDA within the next few weeks.
And I think at that time some of the specific expectations will be clarified.
And of course when we get that letter we will communicate externally and in a more specific way than I think what we've been able to to date.
So beyond that I think I'd prefer to wait until we actually get the letter and then can share with everyone as I said in a more specific way than what we've been able to do thus far in that regard.
And I don't think we want -- at this point there's really not a lot we can add to that.
Norbert? No I don't have anything.
All right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just lastly any update on outstanding tenders such as Canada for comments or anything else that might have come up there during the quarter? No not at this point.
Nothing official has been finalized at this point David.
Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> First on HyQ.
Bob can you give us any more insights into your view on what you think the CRL means for timing? Yes again as I said I don't really want to speculate.
We'll get the complete response letter shortly.
It will be within the next few weeks.
It might even be somewhat sooner than that.
So let's wait until we get that.
And as I've said we'll be very forthcoming in terms of what the content of that letter is.
As I said in response to David's earlier question we've had a lot of dialogue back and forth with the agency but I think the letter will really -- for the first time really specifically clarify what the expectations are with the agency.
So at this stage I'd prefer to just leave it at that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you have an update on Europe on where you're filing is in Europe and the response there? It's moving along.
Norbert or Bob I don't know if you want to comment on that? Yes.
So as you know we might be submitted our file in Europe and the regulatory review process there is ongoing.
And I do not expect to hear much from Europe until the end of the year or the fourth quarter of the year.
It's still ongoing the review process.
And Mike it's Mary Kay.
I think it's fair to say that we're not clear if there's any implications of the FDA concerns on the European approval.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can we spend just a minute on the Sanquin collaboration because I think that's an important event in terms of incremental opportunity in your Plasma Protein business? So can you just talk a little bit about logistics in terms of how that would work from you shipping product to their fractionating? And then how should we think about the economics of that incremental lot? Yes.
I would say we're very excited about this.
And I'm going to ask Bob to just kind of walk through the specific elements of this because I think it's important for everybody to understands the various components.
So Bob why don't you? Great.
Yes.
So I would characterize this very much as a total manufacturing type arrangement here.
We are providing the raw plasma we're collecting it ourself providing it to Sanquin.
They will do fractionation and then send the pays to us for IGs and albumin.
They will do purifications.
They will finish for PD Factor VIII.
And so really we'll have control over the vast majority of the overall supply chain here with the exception of the fractionation for the pays particularly for IGs.
We do have a fixed fee arrangement here.
So from an economic standpoint -- and as you know if you look at the overall cost picture the marginal cost associated with the fractionation piece versus collections and other aspects of the overall cost picture is a modest slice of the overall picture.
And the rate at which we're being charged here is very consistent with our own cost to do similar activities within Baxter.
So really this is an outstanding deal from an economic standpoint because it really doesn't change our cost position net-net and allows us access to a significant opportunity here for increased capacity over time.
Research Division</strong> And then just one follow-up on that.
So can you just talk about your ability to increase raw material supplies and access to plasma? Well certainly.
I mean we have a large footprint in the U.S.
today.
We have some capacity within our existing footprint to increase collections.
Over time as we continue to do -- as we have done in the past as we grow this business we need continue to add incremental collection capacity in order to support that.
Certainly for the Georgia facility we had it within our plants to continue to add additional collection capacity.
And with this opportunity here we will be -- in addition to executing this agreement with Sanquin we will be growing collection capacity roughly commensurate with this in terms of how much incremental this adds to our overall picture.
But we don't view that as being a rate limiter here at all.
Collections will not be a bottleneck as far as we're concerned.
David Lewis from Morgan Stanley is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Bob I wonder if we can come back to Sanquin for a second just sort of strategically.
I guess the announcement of -- is a positive obviously solves for maybe a near term capacity problem.
But if you think about your access to capacity between L.A.
frac and then obviously transitioning to the Georgia facility this sort of implies that you're trying to fill sort of intermediate production capacity.
So I guess with the benefit of hindsight what do you think is sort of the strategic driver? Do you feel like the market demand has just picked up greater than you would have thought several years ago? Is it that where you thought the greenfield facility would come on faster? Is it kind of where you see L.A.
frac in terms of its maturities? Help us understand sort of the timing and what you think brought about this decision as you think about the past couple of years.
Yes.
This is Bob Parkinson David.
Let me take that and then Mary Kay or Bob can add to my comment.
I think you characterized the Sanquin deal the right way.
This is an intermediate gap filler.
And I think there's 3 dimensions of our capacity expansion.
Clearly long term is the announcement that we made last quarter with the greenfield site in Georgia this announcement this morning with Sanquin which can add very meaningful incremental frac capacity starting in 2014 as we mentioned.
And then of course short term our decision to put old L.A.
back in production recognizing that we're going to continue to manage through for a while the constraints that that creates until we can get old L.A.
back into production.
We also have other short-term levers we can pull in terms of scaling up more volume at new L.A.
some expansion opportunities as you know at our Rieti facility and to some degree our Vienna facility.
So it's really a short-term levers that we can pull that I just described.
Sanquin is an intermediate gap filler and so on.
So back then to your question what's driving this? We have consistently maintained that the Plasma Protein business is a very attractive business that should present robust growth for the foreseeable future okay? We're actually seeing now market growth candidly globally that's in excess of kind of the 6% to 8% that we have projected over the last few years.
Now whether the recent strength we've seen in the global market will be sustained out in the future -- multiple years is to be determined but there's no doubt the global market right now is growing faster than that.
Our decision both in greenfield as well as the Sanquin deal we announced this morning is not only to support what's going to continue to be I think robust market growth but our competitive position has been enhanced as well.
Our 10% SubQ has been very well received in the U.S.
As you know we got the approval recently as I commented this morning on the MMN indication which allows us to promote in the neurology channel.
We continue to manage through obviously the HyQ situation.
We see increasing demand in emerging developing markets.
We project consistent robust demand out of China for albumin.
And this is all before you get to again the "wild card" associated with Alzheimer's.
So I think all of you can interpret this announcement this morning as an expression of our confidence in the continued growth of the Plasma Protein business.
And this is -- it's a good -- it's a very good business to be in.
And we think our competitive position due to the recent approvals we've received and so on has been enhanced from what it has been previously.
So that's the sum and substance of it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful very clear Bob.
And then maybe just Bob Hombach one quick one.
On ADVATE second straight quarter in a row we've seen significant U.S.
strength obviously we would assume based on the new indication.
You sort of suggested that perhaps the second quarter strength was based on some finished good inventory building.
Do you sort of have information to believe that really is maybe some distributors stocking? Or is that just sort of a message of conservatism because you only have sort of 2 quarters of performance? No.
I mean we think there is a bit of stocking here but we have seen an uptick in underlying demand over the last 2 quarters for ADVATE in the U.S.
above what we would consider to be the normal market growth rate of mid single digits.
There's no question about it.
So the vast majority of the growth we're reporting we believe is growth both in terms of utilization within our own patient base because the adult prophylaxis label allows us to reiterate for our adult patients the benefits of staying on a consistent regimen of prophylaxis which most pediatric patients do a very good job of but that tends to wane a bit but also conversions to ADVATE related to again both the prophylaxis label as well as the potential for less frequent dosing with our PK dosing approach of every third day administration.
So we definitely have seen an uptick in underlying demand for ADVATE in the U.S.
And David I would just add.
I think you -- we estimate that impact on stocking in call it the 2 to 3 points of growth in both the first and second quarters which is probably in the realm of about $15 million of sales.
And I would mention that our forecast for the back half of the year we believe that those inventory levels may come down.
So we're not projecting 10% growth in the back half of the year in the U.S.
It's going to be probably more like low to mid single digits.
Rajeev Jashnani with UBS is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the plasma deal as well first.
I was wondering if you could talk about on -- just very back of the on globe map [ph].
It seems like a lot of the capacity from this deal -- or I should say the capacity the product that's coming from Sanquin would drive a lot of the incremental IVIG revenues between '13 and '16.
I was just wondering if you could comment on that first.
No.
Well I definitely want to be clear about this point and we wanted to make sure we included it in the press release.
This Sanquin opportunity once the capacity is in place and qualified to run our product through and so on we won't see a sellable product out of Sanquin until 2014.
And as happens in all plasma facility expansions that we've been involved in there will be a ramp-up phase.
And so we won't see the full 1.6 million liter of run rate until the end of 2016.
So this will contribute to the picture but will not be the primary driver in that time frame.
Again we have opportunity to ramp up new L.A.
Bob mentioned that the expansion of Rieti as well that will be coming online and the fact that we're extending the useful life of the old L.A.
facility.
All of those are contributory to the picture here and this is just another piece of the puzzle.
It's not the primary driver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe one follow-up just on HyQ.
I guess maybe -- is it reasonable to expect another human trial for -- or prior to approval for HyQ? Or maybe you could just help explain what other mechanisms there would be to satisfy the FDA requirement? Rajeev Bob Parkinson here.
Again I know this is not going to be particularly satisfying to you but again I don't want to speculate on the need for another trial.
Let's wait until we get the complete response letter then we'll have really -- for the first time despite a number of ongoing conversations and dialogues we've had with the FDA as I mentioned this would really be the first time that their expectations will be clearly delineated.
So it's not that far off.
I would suggest everybody just be patient.
When we get that again we'll communicate on a very timely basis the content of that complete response letter.
So again I don't want to avoid your question but it involves some speculation.
And at this stage I really don't want to do that.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's understandable.
If I could squeeze in one more just on the recombinant factor.
Sure go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you could talk about your marketing efforts regarding the prophylaxis label.
How intense are those? Do you anticipate becoming more aggressive in that regard in the future? Well they're -- I would say they're intensifying the approval actually this week of the 4 000 IU dosage strength.
While that on the surface may not appear to be a big deal to you is actually very helpful because for adults given that dosage strength it really does help facilitate the prophylaxis administration and also the PK dosing that could lead to a reduced number of administrations to once every 3 days which really advances the therapy in terms of dosing frequency and so on.
So I think with that approval Rajeev you'll see our marketing efforts now intensify fairly significantly.
As we've commented we're pleased with the traction we've received to date.
We would expect that that momentum is going to continue.
I would just add that our market research would indicate the #1 concern for hemophilia A patients is controlling bleeds.
And so we've been very focused ever since we got the approval in December of last year on the significant reduction in bleeds from 44 to 1 offered by our base prophylaxis for adults.
And so that program started in earnest immediately.
And as Bob mentioned with the 4 000 IU approval here we will launch even with more vigor the PK dosing approach here which will add additional convenience to patients.
But that reduction in bleed has been a key focus.
And I think you'll see that playing out in some of the demand improvement here in the first 2 quarters.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So just another one on Sanquin and the announcement there.
Obviously you guys of late have been talking about a lot of puts and takes in terms of capacity and I'm just wondering if with this announcement you wouldn't be willing to spell out a little more specifically.
What is your capacity in liters as you look at 2013 '14 '15 '16? Is there any way you can kind of give you some specific numbers in terms of liter capacity? Not this morning but I would suggest that this is something we can get into in more detail in the October investor conference.
We actually plan on including that as part of the presentation.
We realize why you're curious about that but let's defer that until we get together in October.
And Bob I would just say there are a lot of moving pieces but I think the announcement today just increases our confidence that we're going to be able to meet market demand on a unit basis at least in the 6% to 8% range beyond 2013 as we bring old L.A.
back online and have this come online in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that was going to be my next question.
Is that the way we should think about it that this deal allows you to stay in that 6% to 8% range? Or does it get you above that? At this point it's at least in that range.
And we'll give you an update in October.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up.
On the R&amp;D line this particular quarter can you give us just a little better sense of the milestone payments there? What was that related to? Go ahead Bob.
I'm sorry what...
It's milestones.
R&amp;D milestones.
Oh [indiscernible] yes it's a combination of clinical materials.
The way the process works for some of our key programs is as clinical batches are completed for certain clinical trials and they're released into the trial we have to expense the costs associated with those products.
And so from a timing perspective we've been looking to accelerate a few of our key programs.
And so a few of those releases occurred in the quarter a bit sooner than we expected which drove the expense up.
The milestone payments were fairly small discrete items in a couple of different areas.
So I would say the biggest single chunk there was really this release of clinical material and a couple of key trials for it that happened a bit sooner than we expected which is why the R&amp;D growth rate will moderate in the back half of the year just because of that timing.
Research Division</strong> And then just one longer term bigger picture question on ADVATE.
That's another area where there's a bunch of puts and takes in the future in terms of competitive launches versus your longer-acting formulation coming in a couple of years.
I just want to get a sense generally is that a line item on your revenue statement that you think can continue to grow even if the competition is able to continue to put up good data and launch their product on time which I realize are assumptions? But there's a lot going on with ADVATE and I'm just curious how confident you are that as we work our way forward over the next couple of years that you think that can continue to grow despite oncoming competition.
Bob Parkinson here.
The answer is yes that line will continue to grow.
Again in October we'll get together.
We'll be more specific in that regard.
I think short term -- the World Federation of Hemophilia meeting was last week and I think one of the takeaways from that is that clinicians and patients are reluctant to switch away from currently effective stable factor rate therapy given sensitivities the higher risk of inhibitor formation in the B-domain deleted products.
And particularly given our enhanced twice a week or once every 3 day convenience that's offered by the ADVATE PK dosing approach we think that we can mitigate in the short term any competitive threats in terms of longer acting.
As I commented in my prepared comments longer term this is a global market that's only modestly penetrated.
It is a franchise in which we are the leader.
We're committed to remain the leader as evidenced by our expanding new product flow whether that's Factor IX recombinant von Willebrand Factor VII our own longer acting initiative.
So we're very excited about the long-term prospects of as you call it this line on our revenue.
And so that definitely will continue to grow and we'll share that with you when we're together in October.
Norbert could you...
Yes.
I'd like to follow up on that for a moment and reiterate what Bob Hombach has mentioned.
Mainly that's the #1 priority for patients is reducing or stopping bleeds.
And ADVATE in particular with the new label have shown that very effectively.
The second key concern of patients is safety and primarily safety around the formation of inhibitor.
And when you look at ADVATE we have in the field in the use of ADVATE an inhibitor rate of 0.3% meaning about 3 inhibitors in 1 000 previously treated patients which is a remarkably remarkably strong safety record.
And then on the third item of priority for patients is convenience in which the 3-day prophylactic PK dosing and 855 coming in the longer-acting Factor VIII going into Phase III by the end of this year.
I think we have a best-in-class molecule in all 3 categories where patients actually look for the ideal features of the therapy.
And I believe that ADVATE is extremely well positioned to address those needs including for example not just the 4 000 unit dosage but the fact that we have 11 different dosage strengths for ADVATE to accommodate very small patients larger patients.
You have to have a portfolio of offerings in the hemophilia A space to really be able to address the variable needs of patients that are active less active very young older.
And so I do believe you need to have the kind of portfolio we have to address that adequately.
And therefore we feel very confident that we are extremely well positioned for the years to come.
Larry Keusch of Raymond James is on line with a question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob I wanted to just come back to the demand for the plasma proteins that you guys are talking about with the Sanquin deal.
I mean if you go back and look at the comments that you guys had from the past several quarterly conference calls you indicated that you felt like you had enough capacity to supply a market that was growing 6% to 8%.
And clearly now you're making some comments that you believe demand is now increasing.
So I'd be curious just to get some thoughts on why is that demand beginning to increase.
Is it off label usage? Is it obviously emerging markets are going to start to become an opportunity? But any thoughts why demand is increasing will be really helpful.
Well I think first of all as we commented a number of times Larry we and I think others in the industry are more actively promoting let's say in the primary immunodeficiency area I'd say promoting really educating the treaters in terms of it being significantly underdiagnosed even in developed markets.
So you've got a demand creation dimension that exists today that historically in this business didn't exist.
So I think that's one factor.
The other factor which you mentioned is clearly true which is emerging and developing markets are adopting these therapies.
These are again what I'd describe as medically necessary therapies.
So their high priority is emerging developing markets dedicate more spending to health care.
These are the kinds of areas that they're going to spend in.
In terms of off label use I can't really comment on that.
I'm not sure how much of that if anything is driving the demand but it is -- the market right now is remarkably robust.
And just to comment on the Sanquin thing.
Let's look at the Sanquin thing as affording the opportunity of what I'll call surge capacity over and above our existing network alright as opposed to capacity that is necessary to say get to a 6% kind of a market growth.
I think that's an important perspective that everyone needs to understand.
And Bob I don't know if you want to add to that.
Yes.
One other subtlety that I think also contributes to some of the growth we may be seeing even currently in the market that's beyond the 6% to 8% the fastest-growing segment of the SubQ market is -- excuse me of PID is the SubQ market.
And as you know given that -- the more frequent dosing in that therapy and how it's absorbed into the body as it's currently offered in the marketplace patients need to use more grams in order to get the same level of efficacy going SubQ versus IV.
And so that can be anywhere -- in our case for our 10% SubQ about 37% of a normal dose and with some competitors 50% of a normal dose.
So as more of the markets go that direction more grams are going to be consumed per patient.
And that could also be contributing that to some of the stronger growth we're seeing in here and now.
And we think that trend will continue as convenience of dosing at home for PID patients is certainly a key driver in the marketplace.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a couple other quick ones.
Are there any minimums by the way associated with that Sanquin contract? Or is it truly surge capacities as you've got...
No.
There are no minimums here in terms of a take-or-pay situation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 last ones for you guys.
Obviously you do have a capacity limitation on IVIG right now as you modulate the global distribution.
And I'm just wondering if you now have a bit more ability to focus more on the chronic care markets and away from some of the more price-sensitive customers because again you do have some limited availability there.
So perhaps that creates a little more stability in the business as a whole.
And then the second quick one was just on home hemo.
Is there any update there? And is it still CE Mark for 2013 is how we should be looking for it? Yes.
So in terms of the dynamics in the marketplace yes we've been following that path.
You just described a focusing scarce resources on those parts of the market where we see the best opportunity.
And so that has manifested itself in several ways including product prioritization in terms of the U.S.
market and again focusing our marketing efforts around the primary immunodeficiency on-label indication we have and that being one of the fastest-growing segments in the market particularly our 10% SubQ.
So that absolutely is the strategy that we're following.
And so maybe on home hemo...
Mary Kay why don't you comment on home hemo if you would? Yes.
I would just say Larry that there is no change.
Everything remains on track.
We continue with our trial here in the U.S.
Remember that was a small trial with 20 24 patients over about a 10-week period.
So we're on track to complete that trial here in the second half of the year.
We're also on track to start our Canadian trial before the end of the year.
And as you know both of those trials will support the CE marking of the home hemo device in Europe in 2013.
We're still working through whether we need 1 or 2 trials in the U.S.
for the filing that we expect to do in 2014 here in the U.S.
Matt Miksic with Piper Jaffray is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on ADVATE just one more time here.
And we cover a lot of launches.
We're familiar with the shape of small molecule launches.
And as we've seen as you've talked about chronic treatment of hemophilia is quite different historically as folks -- you pointed out they are reluctant to switch off of stable therapy and regular habits of treatment.
Can you talk a little bit about -- and the other thing I guess that's different about this one Norbert as you pointed out is the dosing sizes these vials that facilitate the administration of ADVATE at the different dosing levels in adults or young adult prophylaxis.
So if you could talk maybe about what other important moving parts are there to sort of complete your program for promoting and marketing around PK dosing.
And if you could give us a sense of maybe where you think you are now maybe some baseline metrics on where you think prophylaxis is now.
And then how much of this how much of your business how much of your patients do you think could move to this twice a week or once every third day dosing over time? That would be very helpful.
Then I have one follow-up.
So maybe I'll start with some of the science around Factor VIII.
There is no small molecule therapy that treats hemophilia A.
All hemophilia A treatments are recombinant Factor VIII or plasma-derived Factor VIII.
The really important distinction is that our ADVATE molecule is a full-length Factor VIII which is if you will the authentic molecule that would also be the naturally appearing molecule in someone who does not need a Factor VIII administered.
The competitive landscape is one where all other protein -- Factor VIII protein is a B-domain deleted or otherwise manipulated in a way that they are not full-length or have other protein components attached to them.
And we have very deliberately stayed away from any one of those approaches because our conviction is based on the experience we have made with our full-length ADVATE molecule that that is indeed the very best therapy from a point of efficacy safety as well as convenience.
And when I mentioned the various dosages we have the 11 by now in our portfolio I keep reminding our audiences that when you have hemophilia A you are diagnosed with that condition shortly after birth and you will depend on Factor VIII therapy throughout your entire life all the way through the end of your life.
And there is a huge huge range of needs that someone has who is a very small pediatric patient who is an adolescent who is very typically active who as an adult either more or less active.
And I have a really really hard time seeing how a one-trick pony if you will can actually do the trick and provide adequate therapy for that kind of like wide spectrum of needs that patients with hemophilia A have.
That's why we have focused so strongly on continuously expanding and improving the repertoire of our Factor VIII offerings including reconstitution devices in prophylactic surgical pediatric labels the way we actually offer now prophylaxis with a pharmacokinetic twist and approach.
And so I really do believe that that sets a gold standard that is very very difficult to match.
And that's why we feel confident that we have the right approach to hemophilia A therapy and have had it for 20 years now.
Factor VIII -- recombinant Factor VIII has been a Baxter product since 1992.
We have a 20-year track record and I think it's a terrific track record.
So I think that basically describes it.
The protein question Bob or Mary Kay maybe.
Yes.
I don't know that there's any scientific reason why someone's on every other day prophylaxis why they couldn't move to every third day.
So not really...
But Matt's question about penetration on prophy in the market and the opportunity because he asked what other things do we have? What the reality is -- the big thing is the prophy the PK dosing we are at the very early stages of rolling this out.
As I commented earlier we're accelerating now the promotion.
We think that's a significant opportunity.
But maybe more specifically to put that in context in answer to your question.
So Mary Kay would you...
Yes.
As many of you know prophylactic treatment in the adult population had been very low.
I think a combination of both the annual bleed data that's included in our new label that Norbert commented on earlier in combination with fewer infusions offered by a 3-day dosing regimen will help to accelerate that prophylactic adoption of adults.
So we're looking forward to participating in that and that's part of our marketing strategy here in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one follow-up on the plasma market generally.
I know that already the hairs on the back  of your neck is going up.
The market commentary hasn't been one of your favorite things to talk about but particularly strategy or pricing or consolidation.
But I am interested -- this deal with Sanquin and some comments from one of your competitors about potentially the opportunity to sort of have more interchangeability more flexibility in a way that your collected plasma is sort of utilized across multiple fractionation facilities multiple sites under an FDA approval.
I'm wondering if you see some flexibility in the future? Do you see more deals like this more flexible use of capacity across a branded manufacturer like yourself and some regional players that might have capacity to put to work? Is this a one-off? Is this something that might happen more often in the future? Go ahead Bob.
Yes.
I think we built in a fair amount of flexibility into our existing network.
The vast majority of the plasma we collect is in the U.S.
and U.S.
plasma is really sellable around the world.
Our facilities are FDA approved so that we can sell in the U.S.
or other markets.
So I think within our network we certainly have that flexibility today.
I think given the growth opportunities we see and the potential for new indications and other expansions of the strictly per IG we're going to continue to explore ways to enhance our flexibility on the supply side going forward here.
So I think we're going to -- the Sanquin deal we think is a very very good deal but we're going to continue to look for other ways to enhance our flexibility.
Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank is on line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
I guess the first just kind of still following on the plasma kind of theme.
Can you just maybe give us an update just kind of on the old L.A.
frac just in terms of time lines and to the extent that maybe some of that takes longer? Could we also look at the Sanquin as offering flexibility for that as well? Go ahead Bob.
Yes.
Kristen as we talked about we're looking to take the old L.A.
facility down late in the third quarter.
It will be down about 5 months.
We'll bring it back up online get it requalified.
I would characterize that the refurbishment things we're doing is very modest and that the risk is low but nothing is risk-free in this world but we think it's fairly low.
It will take several months to get the qualification the production runs done and have products available to the marketplace.
That's why we've talked about mid-2013 of coming out of this constrained environment and being in a much better position.
So that's still the time frame we're operating under.
Just to reiterate yes to Bob's point our time frame and our plans with old L.A.
haven't changed at all.
The Sanquin deal is independent of that.
So just to be clear it's to provide surge capacity going forward not because our view or our plans for renovation of old L.A.
have changed.
The plan is the same as it's been for the last 6 to 9 months there Kristen.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up.
I think it's a question that Bob had asked earlier where he'd asked if ADVATE was a line that you can continue to grow.
I just wanted to make sure that I was understanding your response correctly.
Is it your guys' view that ADVATE itself can continue to grow despite longer-acting products? Or is it your view that the recombinant line in total can continue to grow? Because I know you have a number of...
It's our view Kristen.
So the answer is yes.
It's our view that ADVATE specifically will continue to grow over the long-range plan.
Our hemophilia franchise will grow and grow at a faster rate as we expand the new product offering.
So that's as clear as I can be.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then you had mentioned I think Factor IX.
I think you were filing before the end of the year.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on recombinant von Willebrand and then Factor VIIa as well? Mary Kay do you want the latest on that? Yes Factor VIIa as you know we completed a Phase II.
Our expectation which remains unchanged is to start a Phase III before the end of the year.
On von Willebrand we're enrolling patients and we expect to complete the Phase III trial and file probably in the mid to second half with -- of next year 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then still starting the long-acting Phase III before the end of the year as well? Correct.
As you know we're currently in our Phase I and we'll complete that before the end of the year and move in to Phase III.
Research Division</strong> Will we see data on that before you start the Phase III? Or should we just assume if you're starting the Phase III the data from the Phase I looked good? We haven't determined when we'll present the data from the Phase I yet Kristen.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Sean and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer; and Dr.
Norbert Riedel Chief Science and Innovation Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thanks for calling in.
We're pleased today to announce our financial results for the third quarter and also provide you with an update on Baxter's full year 2012 outlook.
As you saw in the press release that was issued earlier this morning third quarter sales after adjusting for FX increased 5%.
EPS of $1.14 per diluted share increased 5% versus the prior year and was in line with the guidance that we previously provided.
As we discussed with you all last week at the Investor Conference we continue to focus on enhancing growth by optimizing our core business portfolio advancing the company's new product pipeline pursuing and accelerating the pace of business development initiatives and capitalizing on the opportunity to develop new business models which includes public and private partnerships and at improving the quality of and access to care in both developed and emerging markets.
Recent achievements reflect these priorities and were highlighted in this morning's press release.
As many of these topics were also covered thoroughly last week I won't take too much time to review these in depth but I'd like to take a moment to highlight just a few key points.
First we continue to be very pleased with the success of our new ADVATE prophylaxis label in the U.S.
market as evidenced by our strong sales performance in the quarter.
And we remain committed to meeting patient needs by enhancing our plasma manufacturing footprint with both internal capacity expansions and external collaborations.
Second we continue to successfully advance our pipeline.
For example during the quarter we submitted our regulatory file in the U.S.
for BAX 326 a recombinant Factor IX protein which if approved will be the only Factor IX product indicated for prophylaxis treatment in the U.S.
where most hemophilia B patients today are treated with an on-demand regimen.
We also recently completed enrollment in our first home hemodialysis clinical trial evaluating the performance and safety of our new device.
This study was conducted at 2 centers in the U.S.
with 24 patients who collectively received more than 700 dialysis treatments.
As you know this data will support our European CE marking in 2013.
On the business development front we entered into a collaboration with Onconova for European commercialization rights of rigosertib a novel targeted anticancer compound.
It's currently in a Phase III study for the treatment of MDS a rare hematological malignancy and is also in Phase II for an oral formulation for this indication.
If approved this will be an exciting addition to our portfolio where we can leverage our legacy of treating critical diseases our existing leadership position in hematology and our sales channel.
While hematology is our primary focus for this drug candidate rigosertib is also in Phase II clinical trials for pancreatic cancer.
In addition under the terms of our agreement with Momenta Pharmaceuticals we recently selected a third biosimilar for development a monoclonal antibody for oncology designated as M511.
This is in addition to the selection of M923 and M834 targeted for the treatment of autoimmune and other inflammatory disorders.
As you know Baxter and Momenta had the opportunity to develop up to 6 biosimilars through our partnership.
And finally as we mentioned at our conference last week the Brazilian government announced the award of an exclusive recombinant Factor VIII hemophilia partnership in Brazil the third-largest hemophilia market in the world.
While this agreement has not yet been finalized we're working closely with the authorities there to enhance access to treatment and provide recombinant therapies to patients and we look forward to updating you on the significance of this award in the coming weeks.
In summary our core portfolio remains strong and we continue to benefit from our focus on life-saving therapies which drives demand moderates economic headwinds and gives us a platform for geographic expansion.
Our pipeline as we discussed last week is robust addressing key high-potential areas of unmet medical need.
We've accelerated the pace of business development.
We remain disciplined to ensure these opportunities align with our core strength.
And we're committed to working with payers by establishing public and private partnerships as we're very well-positioned to provide solutions to their increasing challenges.
These are the vectors that will support our growth and they'll enable us to serve the interests of patients and reward our shareholders well into the future.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on these or other topics during the Q&amp;A this morning.
And with that I'd like to ask Bob to review our third quarter financial results and guidance for the remainder of the year.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the third quarter excluding special items increased 5% to $1.14 per diluted share which was at the high end of the guidance range we previously provided of $1.12 to $1.14 per diluted share.
As mentioned in the press release our GAAP results included an after-tax special charge of $45 million or $0.08 per diluted share related to the recently announced European licensing agreement with Onconova.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the quarter before turning to our financial outlook for the remainder of the year.
Starting with sales worldwide sales totaled approximately $3.5 billion in the third quarter and were comparable to last year.
On a constant-currency basis revenues increased 5% in line with our guidance with notable double-digit sales growth of ADVATE and GAMMAGARD LIQUID in the U.S.
and solid double-digit growth across many emerging markets.
Collectively this strength offset continued softness across mature markets in Western Europe.
Third quarter sales also included a benefit from the integration of the Synovis and Baxa acquisitions with combined sales of $65 million.
In terms of individual business performance Global BioScience sales of $1.5 billion were flat to last year.
And excluding foreign currency sales increased 5%.
Within the product categories recombinant sales increased 1% and totaled $555 million.
On a constant-currency basis sales increased 5% as double-digit growth of 11% in the U.S.
was partially offset by the impact of the Australian tender.
Excluding the impact of this tender global recombinant sales advanced 8%.
As Bob mentioned earlier we continue to be very pleased with the strength of our U.S.
business where we continue to realize benefits associated with the new expanded label of ADVATE drive conversion from plasma-derived therapies and competitive offerings and enhance penetration of prophylactic treatment.
Moving on to plasma proteins.
Sales in the quarter were $337 million and were down 9%.
On a constant-currency basis sales declined 4% as strong mid-teens growth in the U.S.
was more than offset by lower tender sales of FEIBA and plasma-derived Factor VIII primarily in Brazil.
Excluding this impact plasma proteins sales increased 9% on a constant-currency basis with key products like FEIBA albumin and ARALAST registering double-digit gains.
In antibody therapy sales of $404 million increased 6%.
Excluding currency sales accelerated 9% driven by unit volume growth in mid-single digits and positive price benefits resulting from favorable shifts in our geographic mix as we optimize our global supply in light of the L.A.
facility shutdown which is currently under way.
Also as I mentioned earlier we are very pleased with our performance in the U.S.
where antibody therapy sales advanced 12% driven by robust demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID as we continue to promote awareness and diagnosis of primary immune deficiency and drive enhanced penetration of SubQ therapy given our favorable tolerability profile and low infusion site reaction rate.
As a reminder global sales related to the Octapharma absence in the third quarter of 2011 were approximately $20 million.
After adjusting for this antibody therapy revenues advanced more than 15%.
In the third quarter sales in regenerative medicine advanced 15% to $165 million.
On a constant-currency basis sales rose 20% driven by growth of TISSEEL and FLOSEAL and the incremental benefit from Synovis acquisition of approximately $20 million.
Finally revenues in the other category totaled $61 million in the quarter and declined 13%.
Excluding foreign currency sales were flat as lower third-party plasma sales were offset by growth of vaccines including the ongoing revenues related to our influenza collaboration in Japan with Takeda.
In Medical Products global sales in the third quarter of approximately $2 billion were comparable to last year.
Sales increased 4% on a constant-currency basis.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $629 million and declined 3%.
Excluding currency sales increased 2% as global PD growth supported by solid patient gains was offset by lower HD revenues.
Sales in the Global Injectables category of $509 million increased 3%.
And on a constant-currency basis sales increased 7%.
Performance continues to be driven by significant growth in our international pharma-partnering and compounding businesses; growth of certain injectable therapeutics like cyclophosphamide a generic oncology drug; and the incremental benefit of the Baxa acquisition with sales of approximately $10 million.
IV Therapies sales advanced 6% to $479 million.
Excluding currency sales increased 12% driven by higher demand for IV and nutritional therapies and sales of $35 million related to the Baxa acquisition.
Infusion system sales totaled $186 million and were lower than the prior year by 16%.
On a constant-currency basis sales declined 14% due to lower access set revenues and the difficult comparison presented by the completed transition to the spectrum pump in the U.S.
Finally our anesthesia franchise posted sales of $135 million reflecting an increase of 5%.
Excluding currency sales advanced 9% driven by solid gains in Sevoflurane and Suprane particularly in international markets.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin for the company improved to 52.1% reflecting sequential expansion and an improvement of 120 basis points versus the prior year.
This was a result of underlying operational expansion driven primarily by positive mix and a benefit from foreign currency.
These factors more than offset a number of headwinds including pension amortization of intangible assets related to recent business development activities and austerity measures.
SG&amp;A totaled $743 million and increased 5% with 3 points of growth associated with the integration of recent acquisitions.
We also continue to invest in promotional and marketing initiatives and in international markets to enhance our global presence.
These items along with incremental pension expense more than offset the benefit from foreign currency aggressive management of discretionary spending and the operational efficiencies derived from our PowerUp reengineering initiatives.
As expected R&amp;D spending moderated in the third quarter and totaled $240 million.
Growth on a constant-currency basis was in high-single digits as we continue to advance a number of programs including those in our leading hemophilia franchise the Alzheimer's programs and Phase III adult stem cell trial.
The operating margin in the quarter was 23.8% an improvement of almost 200 basis points sequentially and slightly higher than the margin in the third quarter of last year.
Interest expense was $25 million and compared to $14 million last year.
This increase is due to incremental expense associated with recent debt issuances and lower interest income.
Other income totaled $14 million in the quarter compared to expense of $6 million last year primarily a result of favorable foreign exchange impact on balance sheet positions which total approximately $10 million.
The tax rate was 23% for the quarter higher than projected due to earnings mix which brings the year-to-date rate to 22%.
And finally as previously mentioned adjusted EPS was $1.14 per diluted share an increase of 5%.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $747 million and on a year-to-date basis cash flow from operations of $2.2 billion advanced 12%.
Capital expenditures of $259 million in the third quarter compares to spending of $235 million in 2011.
DSO ended the quarter at 57 days compared to a DSO of 54.5 days last year.
This increase can be attributed to growth in both the U.S.
and international receivables.
Inventory turns of 2.3 are lower than turns of 2.5 last year due to the impact of recent acquisitions and increased inventory levels to support late-stage clinical trials and growing demand.
Lastly on a year-to-date basis we repurchased 19 million shares for $1.9 billion or on a net basis approximately 13 million shares for $772 million and we remain on track to achieve our full year objective of net share repurchases totaling approximately 1 billion.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the third quarter and full year 2012.
First for the full year we now expect earnings of $4.51 to $4.54 per diluted share.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we continue to project full year sales growth excluding foreign currency of 4% to 5%.
Given our current outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect currency to have a negative impact on the top line of approximately 3 percentage points.
Therefore we expect reported sales growth which includes the impact of foreign currency to be approximately 2%.
We now expect full year gross margin rate for the company to expand modestly versus last year's rate of 51.4%.
We expect SG&amp;A to grow in mid-single digits and now we expect R&amp;D to grow in high-single digits.
We now expect interest expense to total approximately $90 million and other including noncontrolling interests to be an income item of approximately $50 million driven primarily by benefit of currency and a benefit in the first half related to minority interest income.
Given the interest -- excuse me given the year-to-date changes in our earnings mix we now expect a tax rate of approximately 22% with a full year average share count of approximately 555 million shares which assumes 1 billion in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we plan to generate cash flow from operations of more than $3 billion.
Now to expand on the full year sales assumptions for each of the businesses.
First on a constant-currency basis we continue to expect Medical Products sales to grow in the mid-single digits.
This includes IV therapy sales growth of approximately 10%; anesthesia sales growth in mid-single digits; global injectable sales growth in mid-single digits; lower infusion system sales which are expected to decline approximately 5% to 10%; and lastly renal sales are expected to grow in low-single digits.
For BioScience we continue to project sales growth excluding foreign currency in the mid-single digits.
Our outlook includes: recombinant sales growth in low- to mid-single digits reflecting the strong year-to-date growth in the U.S.; plasma protein sales growth in low-single digits; antibody therapy sales growth in mid-single digits; regenerative medicine sales growth approaching 20%; and finally we expect the other category to grow approximately 5% which includes an anticipated milestone payment in the fourth quarter related to our U.S.
influenza vaccine program.
As mentioned in our press release for the fourth quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.24 to $1.27 and sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 5% to 6%.
Based on our outlook for foreign exchange rates we expect currency to impact sales by approximately 2 percentage points.
Therefore we expect reported sales growth of approximately 3% to 4%.
Thanks and now we'll open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Larry Keusch of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob I know that it's obviously early here and you haven't given a specific guidance for 2013.
But would you mind just sharing some thoughts on just how you're thinking about the environment as we sort of head into next year? Sure Larry.
Let me -- I'll make some comments and then maybe turn it over to Bob Hombach.
I mean hopefully you all got a good context of this last week and you're right we're not going to get into specifics for 2013 this morning.
I mean clearly we anticipate that the environment is going to continue to be very challenging.
That's one of the assumptions that Bob Hombach had on one of his early slides in the presentation last week going to continue to be very demanding.
Obviously as we move into '13 we do have a couple of issues that we're going to need to deal with which are unique to next year.
The device tax which you're all familiar with which is not insignificant in its impact.
We're going to continue to be constrained on plasma capacity through the year in 2014 of course with the Sanquin deal that we recently announced that will put us in a much better position.
Interest rates remain very low.
So in terms of pension exposure and so on that might be a bit of a headwind as well.
But you got a sense of the long-term guidance last week that Bob provided.
The environment's going to continue to be challenging.
But as I commented in my prepared comments this morning the underlying drivers of our business continue to be very solid and we're making I think great progress on a lot of fronts.
So I'll stop there.
I don't know Bob if you want to add anything to that.
I probably covered most of the things that you would comment on but there may be you or Mary Kay.
Yes yes I would just reiterate a lot of what Bob said but also just highlight a few of the key factors that we talked about last week.
Certainly our expectation around the environment as it relates to Western Europe in particular is that we don't see any significant improvement.
We started out this year with an expectation that Western Europe was going to be call it flattish in 2012 and that held up pretty well through the first half of the year but we certainly saw incremental softness in the third quarter and now expect for the full year that Western Europe from a top line perspective will be down slightly.
And as we go into next year that's something we'll definitely be factoring into our thinking.
But the dynamics of the business as we talked about yesterday we still see opportunities to drive incremental leverage whether it's in gross margin or in SG&amp;A over time modest but incremental through some of our reengineering initiatives to the positive business mix that we expect to continue to see in the business even withstanding some of the headwinds that Bob mentioned that we've already talked about for 2013.
And putting it all together is why we directionally indicated last week that our long-range outlook is 7% to 9% for EPS growth but that 2013 would be at the low end of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just one other quick one you mentioned infusion and I understand the comps.
Can you just talk a little bit about the dynamics in the set business and the ability to now start to perhaps raise price on pumps now that the COLLEAGUE recall has been completed? Yes this is Bob Parkinson Larry.
We're not going to comment specifically on pricing strategies for reasons I'm sure you understand.
We completed the COLLEAGUE activity in terms of all the pumps out of the market.
So we continue to manage through what I'll call kind of a stabilizing time in the market.
We had as Bob mentioned some tough comps because a year ago was when we were pretty significantly expanding our SIGMA placements.
So I think this the set business the access set business it's starting to settle out.
I would tell you I don't see a robust turnaround in that at all in the coming couple of quarters.
I think we're still going to go through what I'll just -- as I characterized kind of a settling out period here.
Mary Kay or...
Yes.
Yes I would agree Larry.
We're not expecting the set revenue growth to change dramatically for the next several quarters due to the comps as now we've replaced all the COLLEAGUEs with the SPECTRUM but we are seeing now the share loss that we've experienced impact our disposable set sales.
Mike Weinstein of JP Morgan is on the line with a question.
Our next question comes from Rajeev Jashnani with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just on recombinants.
I think obviously the U.S.
market looks like it continues to be pretty strong here.
And I know you had talked about stocking in the first half and I was just wondering if you could just give us some perspective on whether the growth you're seeing now is really representative of what you think is the underlying growth rate in the market.
And then maybe also if you could any level of quantification on where you think penetration is in terms of adult prophylaxis now versus say 1 year ago? Okay.
Bob and Mary Kay you guys want to...
Yes.
Rajeev we certainly have seen strong results here in the first 3 quarters.
As we talked about in the first half of the year with the new ADVATE prophy label we did expect that some of that was stocking.
As we go into the fourth quarter our expectation would be to grow more in line with the market maybe slightly faster but certainly not the double digits that we've been posting here.
I would say though that we are in the early days of really benefiting from the PK dosing the every 3-day dosing opportunity that we have within the U.S.
As Ludwig Hantson mentioned last week with the August approval for the 4 000 IU for ADVATE that really puts us in a great position to go out and work with patients and treaters to convert them to every 3-day dosing because that allows them to use a single vial to do the increased dosing required to do every 3 days.
So we're very early days in that as well.
We are very excited about the opportunity but I would expect in the fourth quarter we'd see a moderation here from the growth rate that we've seen in the first 3 quarters but still strong.
Yes Rajeev I would add I don't have a year-over-year perspective I can give you on adult prophylaxis.
But today our projection is that about 15% of all the patients that are in the U.S.
that 15% are adults on prophy.
So there's a large opportunity to continue to convert especially in light of our ADVATE label.
Research Division</strong> And I did have one follow-up on IVIG I think you mentioned volume growth was up mid-singles.
And I was wondering if you could comment on whether that's sort of a sustainable level of volume growth that we can expect over the next few quarters until the capacity constraints ease a little bit.
And I guess secondly just on the geographic transition how much more of that is left given where the geographic mix currently stands? Yes.
I'd say we're pretty far along with the geographic shift that we are looking to accomplish here.
Really started in the second quarter and I think accelerated to a level in the third quarter we'll be at on a run-rate basis going forward here.
As it relates to volume I do believe that mid-single digit unit volume growth is a sustainable level for us as we go forward.
As we mentioned last week we are now in the process of working through the modest refurbishments that we need to do to the older facility in L.A.
We've built up enough pace in advance of that to support a mid-single digit unit volume as we go forward.
As we mentioned also we recently received approval in the third quarter in Rieti for the capacity expansion we had coming along -- coming online there so that will be ramping up.
We continue to work to expand capacity utilization in new L.A.
So there's a number of factors here that will play into that but we do think as we go into 2013 mid-single digit volume growth is a sustainable level for us.
And as we get into 2014 certainly with Rieti being a more ramped up with new L.A.
reaching hopefully full potential with old L.A.
being back online and the Sanquin deal then our volume situation becomes significantly better in 2014.
Our next question David Roman of Goldman Sachs is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping -- on the o U.S.
plasma protein trends is there any connection there between either the country destocking ahead of picking up recombinants or are the 2 at all connected? I don't think so.
No David.
If you're referring to Brazil.
No the answer is they're disconnected.
I think I mentioned actually on the third quarter call that we are likely going to have some timing differences between tender shipments between the third and fourth quarter and that certainly has played out even a bit more than we expected.
So the fourth quarter timing around tenders is not related to anything over that.
Now there is the opportunity to the extent we conclude an agreement to have some participation in recombinant Factor VIII in Brazil in the fourth quarter and part of our guidance range I would characterize the year end this year as a bit more uncertain than we would normally see whether it's mature markets like Western Europe where governments are under significant budget constraints and whether there's activity to slow down utilization in the fourth quarter or not is something that we're keeping a close eye on but also just volatility around emerging markets and year-end shipments.
Those are some of the reasons why we've gone with the $0.03 range in the fourth quarter trying to accommodate some of that potential variability but not related to anything in terms of the Brazil per se.
And David I would add the majority of the tender timing is really related to FEIBA and not PD Factor VIII although that was a piece of it.
And the total impact in the quarter on sales was about $45 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe for Bob Parkinson a sort of a strategic question.
As you look at this quarter's growth rate 8% in the United States is probably one of the better growth rates we've seen across all of health care in the U.S.
And then Bob just mentioned pressures in Europe and anything about emerging markets.
When you look at your investment priorities how do you sort of tier them emerging markets versus the U.S.
versus Western Europe? Is it fair to say Western Europe is being deemphasized for those other 2 regions? How do you sort of think about your...
No not at all.
I mean despite the challenging environment in Western Europe the reality is I think we have opportunities to do better and we're still making selective investments where there are what I'll just call promotional pressure points throughout all of our businesses.
I mean that's necessary to do.
The strength in the U.S.
both in the quarter and year-to-date has been encouraging not sure how sustainable it is quite at that level going forward as Jean-Luc Butel featured last week at the Investor Conference.
Clearly emerging developing markets continues to be a priority.
These are markets that are still commanding a significant piece of our incremental investment both in infrastructure frankly but also promotional focus.
And I think these are markets that we have to do better in and I think we will do better going forward.
So -- but no don't assume that because of the challenging macro environment in Western Europe that we're abdicating that or giving up on that in any way.
I mean it continues to be as you know a big piece of our business.
And as I said I think there continue to be opportunities to invest in those markets as well.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And one more on cash flow.
Bob the $3 billion cash flow this year you've talked a little in the past about headwinds affecting the income statement.
That $3 billion that I think still includes some COLLEAGUE-related costs.
How should we think about that going forward? Yes.
We've incurred more than $200 million each of the last 2 years.
So I think if you adjust for COLLEAGUE it would be north of $3.2 billion that we'd be shooting for here in 2012 and certainly we won't have that headwind going into 2013.
So cash flow from operations growth as we talked about in the Investor Conference last week should be roughly in line with earnings growth.
So you should think about growing it off of a slightly higher base than the $3 billion that we're projecting this year.
David Lewis of Morgan Stanley is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones here.
I guess the first thing is for Bob Hombach just looking at the P&amp;L.
The gross margins this quarter were obviously very strong but I guess they're actually the strongest they've been in 3 years.
So maybe help us understand Bob the underlying factors that are kind of driving you back to where you were 3 years ago and sort of how sustainable you see those trends heading into next year.
Certainly.
Some elements I think are sustainable.
Some I think were specific to the third quarter.
The sustainable piece is strong U.S.
demand in our hemophilia business both for recombinant Factor VIII for ADVATE but also for FEIBA which is one of our higher-margin plasma-derived proteins.
And so FEIBA growth in the U.S.
was strong as well.
And we think given the focus that we have both on the ADVATE prophylaxis label and PK dosing but also as Ludwig Hantson mentioned last week we're very excited about the opportunities that FEIBA prophylaxis could present for us as well.
So I think those dynamics continue.
The thing that also impacted the third quarter positively for us really is the dynamic related to FX.
So as you know Europe is one of our larger markets and certainly our euro sales are pretty substantial.
So the fact that the euro was pretty weak particularly through much of the third quarter depressed the sales line.
But as you know we're largely hedged either naturally hedged or financially hedged as it relates to the euro so we're able to preserve the margin dollars even though the reported sales number comes down.
So the margin calculation itself is actually benefited as a result of that we saw a pretty significant dynamic there.
Now just within the last several weeks you've seen the euro go from the low 120s up to 130 so we don't expect that margin FX benefit in the fourth quarter like we saw it in the third quarter.
And it was more than 50 basis points in the quarter from an impact standpoint.
We'll see some of that in the fourth quarter but not anything quite that substantial.
So I think those 2 factors strengthened U.S.
hemophilia and the FX dynamic trickling around the euro are what drove this significant margin.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And then yes I know you've got questions you talked about the Brazil PD Factor VIII business.
But if you think about the European antibody business this quarter it was down more sharply than we would have expected.
I guess you talked a little bit about tenders I believe in the release.
But help us understand how much of that is tenders how much of that could be pending austerity which we had not seen in the past? And how much of that is just prioritization of global pricing if you have stronger demand in U.S.
or other regions? I don't think it's an austerity effect.
No David it's almost entirely the latter that you just mentioned.
As we've talked about we are constrained on a global basis in trying to optimize the limited supply that we have recognizing that some of our competitors like Octapharma have historically had more strength in Europe and wanted to participate in more price-sensitive markets.
So we've been actively shifting volume from Europe to the U.S.
as I mentioned starting in the second quarter but really reaching a peak here in the third quarter and reaching what I think will be largely a run rate as we go forward here.
So that really I think is the dynamic.
There's nothing else significant going on that I'm aware of.
We continue to participate in markets where we think it makes sense in Western Europe where we have a long established position and we think an appropriate price point and that will be something we'll support going forward.
So I think we've largely done the shift that we're going to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay that was a deliberate Baxter strategy not end market? Absolutely.
Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So one follow-up here on BioScience.
You've upped your expectations for recombinants in IVIG.
On the recombinants Bob you mentioned I think you threw in this competitive convergence comment I'd love to hear you elaborate on that in addition to conversion to prophy.
And on the IVIG side I guess I would just say help us understand how you're driving some above -- I guess better than expected growth improving growth there against the backdrop of the manufacturing constraints and facilities maintenance you've talked about and I have one follow-up.
Sure.
Bob why don't you handle this? Yes sure.
So on the conversion front I think as Ludwig highlighted last week we had a 2-pronged strategy when we got the label expansion in December of last year.
The first was immediately to focus on the improvement in outcomes for patients and reducing bleeds to on average less than 1 but overall for up to 40% of the patients or more no bleeds at all.
So we started immediately with that and started to see some conversion from competitive products even in the beginning of this year.
And now with the opportunity to more actively market the PK dosing for every 3 day dosing we continue to be confident we're going to have opportunities there to be very competitive and potentially take some additional share as we go forward.
So we're very familiar with this community.
We literally know it patient by patient so we have very good tracking mechanism to understand as patients come on to prophy are they switching from on-demand from a Baxter product or on-demand from a competitive product or competitive prophy to prophy.
So we've got reasonably good visibility there.
On the IG front it's a combination of 2 things Matt.
One is we're running at very very low levels of safety stock uncomfortably low I would say but the demand has been so strong we're doing everything we can to meet market demand.
And so that has put us in a situation of being on back order on a pretty consistent basis.
So we've maybe stretched the volume side of this a bit here in 2012 from our original expectation but the demand has been so strong.
But also this dynamic as we mentioned in the prepared comments and I just mentioned to on other question the shift from Europe to the U.S.
there is a fairly meaningful price differential from 20% to 30% in some cases and so that provides some benefit to the sales line from a mix perspective as well.
So it's a combination of really doing everything we can on the volume side and getting mix benefit as well along with the very modest price increase that we talked about previously that we took in the U.S.
Just to look back to the -- on the recombinant question I think it's fair to say that the volume strength is primarily attributed to the uptake really on prophylaxis which is different than a share shift dynamic.
The clinical data on the low bleed rate has been pretty effective in a competitive context but I think the prophylaxis label has really been the primary driver of the strength today.
And as Mary Kay commented in one of the earlier questions we're still in the early stages of I think penetrating the opportunity that exists here.
So as we commented we're quite encouraged about that.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then a follow-up on Brazil you talked about a predominantly FEIBA impact in the quarter tender-related impact.
If you could maybe it'd be helpful to frame out sort of the bigger picture of the opportunity in Brazil.
You talked a lot Bob last week about the strategic public-private partnership there that's still pending.
But is there an opportunity for these to -- I mean do you have an opportunity to do something across hemophilia broadly that would include FEIBA and PD and ADVATE? Or should we think about these tender and partnership opportunities along sort of therapies and product lines? Yes.
Well again I'm somewhat limited until we finalize the agreement.
And as I commented at the conference last week really the only reason that I even commented on this is there has been a local publication on the award that was given the exclusive award that was given to Baxter.
And given that it's in the public domain I did want to comment on it.
The fact that the contract is not finalized I think we're somewhat limited to offer too many more specifics Matt than what we shared last week.
But just to reiterate a few things that we did comment on last week just if there's some callers this morning that didn't follow that it is an exclusive award specifically as it relates to recombinant Factor VIII okay? We think the opportunity is significant.
We commented Brazil is the third-largest hemophilia market in the world with more than I think it's about 10 000 individuals is that right Mary Kay that have hemophilia A in Brazil.
The intent of the Brazilian government and this is one of the largest plasma-derived markets in the world is to in as a short an order as possible fundamentally convert all those plasma-derived patients to recombinant.
So this is a material opportunity.
And given the exclusive nature of it clearly puts us in a position where we're able to establish I think the relationship with both the treaters and the patients that should benefit us on other hemophilia-related products over time that are not part and parcel to the specific collaboration.
So you mentioned FEIBA that would be an example.
But certainly future products like Factor VII Factor IX von Willebrand's longer acting and so on are not really part of the agreement but would allow us to build on this foundation going forward.
So at this point I think I'm going to stop so I don't share any more than I should.
But like I say when the contract gets finalized which hopefully will be within the next several weeks then we'll be very specific.
But I think you can conclude this is a material opportunity.
And as I commented last week it's a model an example of what I referred to as public-private partnerships that support the vector for growth of government collaborations and I think it can be an example of some things that we're going to try to do elsewhere.
In fact as I commented last week we actually have active discussions on other businesses with other countries.
So stay tuned on that.
Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> First off I apologize.
I was caught between 2 calls at the same time earlier so...
No I'm impressed of how quickly you got back in the queue Mike.
All right go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Well I don't really have that much on the quarter.
I do Bob want to spend a minute on just M&amp;A strategy particularly in the Medication Delivery side of the business.
Could you just talk a little bit about how you think -- you commented on this in a couple of ways at the analyst meeting but could you just comment a little bit about how you think leveraging certain assets in the Med Delivery portfolio going forward.
If the goal is you've got certain strengths whether it's manufacturing certain types of products delivery within the hospital we could go on how do you think about building that business through M&amp;A over the next 3 to 5 years? Well I would just say I think the Baxa deal that we did earlier in the year probably is a good example of the kinds of things we're going to continue to look at.
It's about -- we talk about adjacencies bolt-ons we used a lot of terms like that.
But any deals that we do have to have what I call well I've coined the term no kidding around synergies.
When you do acquisitions it's easy to position them as strategically compelling and all these words that get thrown around but there have to be legitimate synergies.
The Baxa deal clearly leveraged our channel and relationship with the hospital pharmacy.
It became an extension of our strength with premixes to expand in formulated products within the hospital pharmacy.
And so whether it's channel whether it's technology when you do deals you have to be convinced that 1 plus 1 is greater than 2.
And so I think in many ways the Baxa deal as I said I think incorporates a number of the characteristics of the kinds of deals within Medical Products that we're going to continue to target.
As I commented last week I don't see us doing deals really outside of the framework of the businesses that we're in today.
In other words fundamentally new areas of health care because I think there's enough opportunities in business development and acquisitions to leverage strength that we have in our core businesses and that includes BioScience not just in Medical Products that that's where we want to focus.
That's where the value really gets created and the risk gets managed.
And there's always risk when you do acquisitions but that's one of the ways you create a buffer for any risk that's encountered is that there is a compelling synergy that is deliverable.
So I'll stop there I don't know Bob or Mary Kay if you want to add to that.
Does that answer your question Mike? Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes I think it does.
There's been some additional commentary in the press in the last 24 hours as well talking about potential targets for you guys.
So let me switch gears though.
On pipeline news over the next few months could you just talk a little bit about how you think you'll update the Street number one on your HyQ discussions with the FDA as you gain greater clarity there on the preclinical path will that just come on the fourth quarter call? And then second just to be clear on your thoughts on how you'll disclose on Alzheimer's? I'm not sure we're going to have anything on that before the fourth quarter call in January.
Yes on HyQ.
Norbert why don't you -- Dr.
Riedel this is Mike Norbert why don't you may be address this and then Bob or Mary Kay can add.
So Mike we touched on it last week at the conference.
On HyQ we are still planning to request a meeting with the agency by year end to discuss what we have done in the area of additional preclinical data what else they are looking for.
Until we have had that meeting and discussion it'll be difficult to predict when we will resubmit and actually move towards a review.
On other news that you should be expecting this year I believe...
Research Division</strong> And by the way Norbert I was talking about after you've had that meeting what type of disclosure we would expect or whether that would just wait for the -- wait for the 4Q call? I think Mike it'll depend on the timing and what opportunities we have to communicate and what type of information we have to communicate.
So I don't know that we have an answer today for your question.
And on the hemophilia pipeline I think as we move forward with our BAX 855 our longer-acting Factor VIII we plan to have an IND submitted by year end as we mentioned and we will report out on the Phase I data.
Typically -- although we haven't done final decisions typically large symposia like the Hemophilia Meeting would be a forum where we talk about those data.
And so it'll be within the format of what we typically do.
On VIIa the same we will go into Phase III by year end and make those announcements as we actually get the okay from the regulators to proceed.
Mike and I'd add on Alzheimer's I think it's similar to the HyQ situation.
It all depend on what type of information the timing of information and what we have to disclose.
So we've made no decisions at this point.
Jonathan Palmer of CLSA is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> For Bob Parkinson I just want to follow up on a strategic topic from last week's meeting and you touched a little bit on this with Matt's question.
One of the growth vectors you discussed last week was this public and private partnerships and we spent a little more time on the Brazilian recombinant deal this morning.
My question for you is how do you institutionalize this objective across the organization and really leverage the portfolio? And is there a formal group responsible for pushing this initiative? Yes that's a great question Jonathan.
Well one of the areas that we've really focused on this year is broadening our engagement and really the global resources focused on what we call market access which is beyond the traditional go-to-market model of feeling the sales force and detailing the health care professionals.
I mean we've always had gap organizations in place that have established relationships with the government.
But locally in the country but rolled up through the regions as well as in the U.S.
we've increasingly I think formalized the process that we are becoming increasingly attuned to what the priorities are of the governments who at the end of the day are the payers for most of health care and then identifying those areas in which we think we can be a viable partner.
As an example and I won't say which government it is but we had representatives from the Health Ministry here in Deerfield a couple of weeks ago talking about several different issues of priority for them.
One of which is a common theme almost around the world that governments are challenged by is how do they manage the escalating costs of treating end-stage renal disease.
And increasingly there's an open-mindedness and a recognition that treating patients in the home not only is more convenient for the patient oftentimes can lead to enhanced clinical outcomes but clearly care can be delivered at a lower cost than a traditional in-center type of environment.
So we have and we will continue to expand our resources refine our competencies in an untraditional way starting with attempting to understand and empathize with the position of the governments and the payers on what their priorities are and then doing a crossmatch with the therapies that we're in whether it's end-stage renal disease whether it's in plasma therapeutics or whatever it may be where our leadership position we believe objectively we present ourselves as a viable partner and challenge them to open their minds to a different way of collaboration.
One of the things that I feel very strongly about is I think I used this expression last week necessity is the mother of invention.
And I think they need is becoming so intense for governments and payers it's forcing them to say we have to think about unconventional and different ways to partner with industry if we're fundamentally going to get at these cost drivers that historically everyone's been frustrated at their inability to deal with.
And the traditional vendor-customer relationship where price on the product is the only variable clearly we understand why people are focused on that to try to attempt to drive cost down but we're reaching floors in that.
And so we're really perceiving in developed markets an open-mindedness to collaborate in ways that heretofore they haven't.
Conversely in emerging markets who have the challenge of providing access at what we call the base of the pyramid which is as much of their population as possible to therapies they too are looking for ways to finance access more broadly to care.
And again the traditional what I call Western models of go-to-market I think have to be challenged and kind of turned on end as it relates to emerging markets.
So I'll stop there.
I touched on several different elements but there's a reason we broke this out as a fourth growth vector.
We used the examples of the recent Sanquin collaboration Jean-Luc took the group last week through the collaboration on what's referred to as the PD First program in Thailand.
We hope to share more specifics with you shortly on the collaboration in Brazil but I think these are just the first of what's now going to be a continuing stream over time of collaborations that are going to be significant contributors to our growth.
Our next question comes from Matt Taylor of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on prophy.
Clearly that's been a great driver for you in recombinants.
I wanted to understand in terms of units when patients convert from on-demand to prophy.
How much of a benefit is that for you in terms of total volume? It's significant.
Mary Kay you want to...
Yes.
I mean moving from on-demand therapy which could be 44 bleeds a year to prophylaxis where you're taking it depending on whether you're doing it PK or through standard prophylaxis either 2x or 3x a week you're probably talking volume increase of about 2x to 3x the volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
I read papers that go -- states from 2x to 6x so 2x to 3x is helpful.
This is weight-based.
I wouldn't -- I'd say 6 sounds a little high Matt but it is weight-based so it does depend.
It's customized to the patient.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate that in a difficult market you guys delivered a decent quarter here.
And you talked last week about your long-range plan goals.
The growth here was a little bit lower than your goals and I know you said that it's going to be back-end loaded.
Can you help us with sort of the shape of the curve there over the 5 years in terms of how you think the growth is going to be this year and next year and in the out years? Yes actually what I mentioned was during the conference that it actually won't be that dramatic on either side about approximately 5.
And the dynamics are in the outer years we'll have more new products contributing to top line and bottom line growth but we'll also have increased competition whether it's in the hemophilia space or Factor VIII or in Suprane and cyclophosphamide on the Med Products side.
And in the near term as we start ramping up capacity particularly in 2014 that will help the plasma situation.
But in '13 we're still constrained.
So to think about the dynamics around the approximately 5 I don't see a big swing over the 5 years plus or minus around that range going forward.
Our last question we have Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital on the line.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Brandon on for Glenn.
First can you just give us an update on what you're seeing in terms of Octapharma regaining footing in the U.S.? Are you still seeing -- still not really seeing Octa in the U.S.? And then also can you give us your expectations for U.S.
IVIG pricing as the contracts are renegotiated for 2013? Given the strength of the demand in the U.S.
the Octa return has effectively been a nonfactor for Baxter given our product constraints even though we've shifted a fair amount of product to the U.S.
to try to meet this very strong demand.
They are still operating with a suboptimal offering of a 5% concentration versus the 10% everybody else has.
And despite being one of the lower-priced players in the market they really haven't I think had much of an impact.
But again I think this really is about the strength of demand in the U.S.
kind of overwhelming any of these other factors.
So it really hasn't hit our radar screen.
And we would not comment Brandon on IVIG pricing and contracts going into the contracting season.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also are there any large BioScience tender that we need to be keeping an eye out for? Well the one that is still pending in the recombinant space is the Canadian tender.
And so we have been informed that we have been awarded a portion of that tender that's pretty consistent with our current position in the marketplace.
The CBS has asked us not to be specific about the details but I would tell you that the pricing is pretty consistent what we see in other major tender markets.
And so as we go into 2013 that will be a modest headwind.
But given all the other factors we talked about the ADVATE prophy in the U.S.
the potential opportunity in Brazil our opportunity to continue to penetrate other emerging markets like China with approval now and eventually Russia by 2013 with ADVATE as well we don't think that's going to be a net headwind for the year overall for the recombinant franchise.
But other than that there's no major tenders pending.
Right.
And I would say Brandon too that this is the fourth and last of the national tenders that have played out over the last several years.
So we'll be soon approaching a time where we may be participating in these tenders when they're renewed over the next coming -- the coming years which again is not included in our long-range guidance.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Don.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Q1 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for calling in.
As you saw in the press release that was issued earlier this morning Baxter's first quarter financial results were in line with our expectations and we've also confirmed guidance for the full year for 2013.
In the first quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share increased 4% to $1.05 per diluted share and worldwide sales increased 2%.
And our financial outlook for the full year includes sales growth of approximately 10% which reflects the impact of the Gambro acquisition and adjusted earnings per diluted share of $4.60 to $4.70.
Even in the face of a very challenging macro environment Baxter continued to make investments to support geographic expansion initiatives and new product introductions while advancing a number of programs and improve the quality of care and address key high potential areas of unmet medical need.
A few recent achievements include the advancement of our Home Hemodialysis Device VIVIA.
As you know last year we completed the first clinical trial in the U.S.
evaluating the performance and safety of this new device and we've initiated a second in-center nocturnal hemodialysis trial in Canada.
We remain on track to complete this trial in the second quarter which will be used to support CE Marking in Europe later this year.
Within our leading hemophilia franchise we've achieved a number of milestones including the initiation of a global Phase III clinical trial of BAX 817 a recombinant factor VIIa therapy for hemophilia A patients with inhibitors and we also announced results from a pivotal Phase III study evaluating routine prophylaxis of FEIBA compared to on-demand treatment of patients with hemophilia A or B and inhibitors.
The presence of an inhibitor as you know makes response to treatment more challenging and patients with inhibitors have an increased risk of developing complications such as joint damage.
Top line results from this study showed a 72.5% reduction in the median annual bleed rate with prophylaxis treatment.
This Phase III study supported the filing of a Biologics License Application with the FDA during the first quarter and earlier this week Baxter was granted orphan drug designation for the prophylaxis indication.
Also within the hemophilia franchise Baxter began dosing the first patients in the Phase III trial of BAX 855 a longer-acting PEGylated factor VIII therapy based on the full-length ADVATE molecule with an increased half-life.
With efficacy and safety as the primary goals for selecting the therapy BAX 855 retains the underlying attributes of ADVATE potentially offering alternative treatment regimen resulting in fewer infusions.
In the BioTherapeutics franchise Baxter and our partner Halozyme Therapeutics announced the positive opinion in Europe for the use of HyQvia as a replacement therapy for adult patients with primary and secondary immunodeficiencies.
HyQvia is a combination of human normal immunoglobulin and recombinant human hyaluronidase which facilitates the dispersion and absorption of the therapy.
Upon receiving marketing authorization from the European Commission Baxter plans to launch HyQvia in select European markets later this year.
We also continue to advance development of GAMMAGARD LIQUID as a possible treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
As you know we completed the first Phase III study for Alzheimer's in December recently locked the database and expect to release top line results during the second quarter.
A second Phase III trial was initiated in the first quarter of 2012 and we've now randomized more than 200 of the estimated 400 patients and we expect to complete this study in 2015.
On the business development front we acquired the investigational hemophilia compound OBI-1 from Inspiration BioPharmaceuticals and related assets including manufacturing operations from Ipsen Pharma.
OBI-1 is a recombinant porcine factor VIII currently in Phase III clinical studies for the treatment of bleeding in people with acquired hemophilia a rare potentially life-threatening bleeding disorder which unlike congenital hemophilia typically affects older adults and occurs equally in both males and females.
OBI-1 received orphan drug designation in the United States and Europe and was recently granted fast-track designation by the FDA for this indication.
OBI-1 has the potential to address existing unmet needs for hemophilia patients and over time represents a $200 million dollar opportunity for the company.
And finally we received U.S.
regulatory clearance for our proposed acquisition of Gambro AB a global innovator in hemodialysis and acute renal technologies.
This acquisition enhances Baxter's competitive position by creating a global renal therapies business with a comprehensive product offering for both chronic and acute dialysis patients and positions the company to capitalize on the significant opportunity presented by the large and growing global dialysis products market.
Pending additional regulatory approvals we continue to expect the transaction to close at the end of the second quarter.
In closing Baxter's portfolio remains strong and we continue to benefit from our focus on life-saving therapies.
In 2013 and beyond we'll focus on the 4 growth vectors that support our strategic objectives and enable us to serve the interest of patients providers and other key stakeholders.
These 4 vectors include: enhancing growth by optimizing our core business portfolio; advancing the company's new product pipeline; capitalizing on the opportunity to develop new product models which include public and private partnerships; and pursuing business development initiatives that deliver enhanced returns in the near- and long-term.
With this in mind Baxter will fulfill our mission of improving quality and access to care as we save and sustain lives globally.
And as always I'd be happy to address any questions that you might have on these or other topics during the Q&amp;A.
So with that I'd like to ask Bob to review our financial results for the quarter and also guidance for 2013.
Bob if you would? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the first quarter excluding special items increased 4% to $1.05 per diluted share which is at the higher end of our guidance range of $1.03 to $1.05 per diluted share.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP results include after-tax special items of $29 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
The special items in the quarter were primarily associated with deal-related costs for the planned acquisition of Gambro AB.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the quarter before turning to our financial outlook for full year 2013.
Starting with sales worldwide sales of more than $3.4 billion in the first quarter increased 2% on both the reported and constant currency basis.
Growth was driven primarily by acceleration in emerging markets particularly BRIC countries and solid performance in several key franchises within BioScience which offset softness in the U.S.
Medical Products business.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales of $1.5 billion advanced 5% on both the reported and constant currency basis in the first quarter.
Within the product categories hemophilia sales of $765 million increased 3% on both the reported and constant currency basis.
U.S.
sales growth was strong as sales advanced 7% driven by double-digit growth of ADVATE and FEIBA.
This more than offset the impact of European austerity measures and international tenders.
We continue to be pleased with the benefits associated with our differentiated label of ADVATE as we continue to drive conversion from plasma-derived therapies and competitive offerings and enhanced penetration of prophylactic treatment.
In BioTherapeutics sales of $509 million increased 2% on both the reported and constant currency basis.
As expected sales growth of GAMMAGARD LIQUID and albumin was in low single-digits driven primarily by improved pricing as we remain capacity-constrained while sales of Alpha-1 treatments continued to -- continued strong growth.
In the first quarter sales in BioSurgery of $172 million increased 12%.
After adjusting for foreign currency sales rose 11% driven by growth of TISSEEL and the benefit from the Synovis acquisition of approximately $10 million.
Finally vaccine revenues totaled $84 million in the quarter and increased 25%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 28% driven primarily by strong demand from the FSME vaccine and the incremental milestone payments totaling approximately $10 million related to our ongoing collaborations on the development of influenza vaccines.
In Medical Products global sales in the first quarter exceeded $1.9 billion and were comparable to the prior year.
Excluding foreign currency sales declined 1%.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $590 million and were flat to the prior year while on a constant currency basis sales were up 1%.
Sales in this category were impacted by austerity measures implemented in China the timing of tenders and lower HD sales which offset the contribution from patient gains in the U.S.
and emerging markets.
Sales in the fluid systems category of $740 million increased 3% and on a constant currency basis sales increased 2%.
Performance continues to be driven by solid demand for IV solutions and price improvements for certain injectable drugs like cyclophosphamide which collectively offset lower sales of infusion pumps and access sets as planned.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals which includes our inhaled anesthetics and nutritional therapies posted sales of $363 million reflecting a decline of 1% on a reported basis and a 2% decline on a constant currency basis.
Double-digit growth of anesthetics across international markets were driven by increased penetration in new markets which was more than offset by lower sales in the U.S.
attributed to softness in surgical procedures and fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of U.S.
wholesalers.
Finally sales in BioPharma Solutions which is our pharma partnering business totaled $225 million representing a 10% decline on a reported basis and 11% decline on a constant currency basis.
This was due to temporary constraints which resulted in delayed shipments to customers which have been resolved and shipments have resumed.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L gross margin in the quarter of 51.0% reflects margin expansion of 20 basis points versus the prior year margin of 50.8%.
This was a result of underlying operational expansion driven primarily by the benefit of positive mix which offset a number of headwinds including incremental pension expense the medical device tax government austerity measures and approximately $20 million of accelerated costs.
SG&amp;A totaled $778 million and increased to 5% driven by the impact of incremental pension expense investments we are making in promotional and marketing initiatives and within international markets to enhance our global presence.
In total these items more than offset the benefit from tight management of discretionary spending and operational efficiencies derived from our process reengineering efforts.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter increased 4% and totaled $246 million reflecting the progress we are making in advancing a number of programs in our pipeline including those in our leading hemophilia franchise Alzheimer's and other key programs.
The operating margin in the quarter was 21.3%.
Interest expense was $25 million compared to $18 million last year.
This increase is due to incremental expense associated with the debt issuance last year and lower interest income.
Other income totaled $30 million in the quarter and is primarily attributable to the favorable foreign exchange impact on balance sheet positions and a gain of $10 million associated with the sale of intangible assets.
The tax rate was 21.3% for the quarter in line with expectations and includes a modest benefit from the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit.
And as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.05 increased 4%.
Turning to cash flow.
Cash flow from operations in the first quarter totaled $386 million and capital expenditures totaled $292 million both in line with our expectations.
DSO ended the quarter at 53.6 days reflecting a 4-day improvement versus the same period last year due to a significant reduction in DSOs in certain international markets.
Inventory turns of 2.2 turns are modestly lower than the first quarter last year.
As you know we continue to increase inventory level to support growing demand particularly for plasma proteins as we remain on track to benefit from enhanced capacity in the second half of the year.
Lastly in the quarter we repurchased approximately 8 million shares for $534 million or on a net basis 4 million shares for $351 million in line with our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the full year 2013.
As you saw in the press release we confirmed guidance and continue to expect earnings of $4.60 to $4.70 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of the Gambro acquisition which is projected to close at the end of the second quarter with estimated dilution of $0.10 to $0.15 per diluted share.
This dilution is primarily related to non-cash amortization of intangible assets which will be finalized upon closing.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 10% and this includes a half-year sales contribution from Gambro of approximately $830 million.
Excluding Gambro we continue to expect sales growth on a constant currency basis of approximately 4% and at current foreign exchange rates we expect a modest negative impact on sales for the year.
For the full year given current foreign exchange rates we now expect gross margin for the company to be approximately 50.5% for the full year.
While year-over-year we expect margin expansion of approximately 100 basis points in the base Baxter business this will be more than offset by intangible asset amortization related to Gambro; incremental pension expense; government austerity measures including medical device tax; and a negative impact from foreign currency.
In terms of expense we expect SG&amp;A to increase approximately 10% and R&amp;D to grow in mid single-digits with both line items reflecting leverage in the Baxter business at Baxter expense base along with the addition of Gambro.
We continue to expect interest expense to total approximately $170 million which reflects the impact of the debt issuance associated with the Gambro acquisition.
In addition we now expect other income to total approximately $10 million for the full year.
We expect a tax rate of approximately 22% and we expect the full year average share count of approximately 550 million shares which assumes approximately $300 million to $400 million in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective our plan remains to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $3.3 billion with capital expenditures totaling approximately $1.7 billion which includes Gambro and the investments we are making to enhance our plasma manufacturing footprint in Covington Georgia.
Let me move to sales and expand our assumptions for the 2 businesses and the major product categories.
Beginning with Medical Products on a constant currency basis including the half-year contribution related to Gambro we expect sales growth in the low teens.
Excluding Gambro we expect sales for Medical Products to grow 3% to 4%.
Specifically we expect Baxter renal sales to grow in low single-digits which will be augmented by a half-year sales contribution from Gambro totaling approximately $830 million.
We continue to expect fluid systems sales which includes IV solutions infusion pumps and access sets to grow in mid single-digits.
We expect Specialty Pharmaceutical sales which includes our nutritional therapies and inhaled anesthetics to grow in low single-digits.
And we expect the BioPharma Solutions business to have comparable sales to 2012 of approximately $1 billion.
For BioScience we continue to project sales growth excluding foreign currency in the 4% to 5% range.
Our outlook includes low to mid single-digit growth in our hemophilia franchise which includes recombinant and plasma-derived factor VIII and factor IX therapies and FEIBA an inhibitor treatment.
We expect mid to high single-digit growth in BioTherapeutics driven primarily by strong demand for immunoglobulin therapies including GAMMAGARD LIQUID and subcu therapies as well as growth in albumin and our treatments for Alpha-1 deficiency.
In BioSurgery we expect high single-digit growth.
And finally we expect our vaccine franchise to grow in mid single-digits.
As mentioned in our press release for the second quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.12 to $1.14 and sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 4%.
At current foreign exchange rates foreign currency may have a modest negative impact on sales growth in the quarter.
Thanks and now let me open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a couple of quick questions on the model then maybe more of a strategic question.
I guess a couple quick nits on the model.
Spec pharm you talked about a slight change of guidance for the year.
I wondered does that reflect more just the utilization environment you're seeing here in the first quarter or any change to what you're thinking about the timing of generics in the back half of the year? And the second financial question was non-op guidance is roughly equivalent to what you guided for a few quarters -- or sorry a few months ago but a very strong non-op quarter this particular quarter.
Maybe you could just walk through some of those dynamics and then one follow-up.
Okay.
Bob go ahead.
Yes.
I think David your comments about softer surgical procedures are really what drove -- but there's no change in our expectation about the potential for generic competition later this year in this space so no change there.
And as it relates to the non-op items as I mentioned in my prepared comments 2 real drivers there: one foreign exchange; the other one sale of an intangible asset.
And so the FX item really related to some volatility around the euro in the first quarter.
As you know the euro traded anywhere from $1.37 to $1.27 during the course of the quarter and given our balance sheet positions and the quarters and the months in which it was most volatile we had a pretty significant outcome there.
But as I mentioned in my prepared comments we also took some costs into -- in the margin that we hadn't expected for this quarter.
We expect it later in the year of approximately $20 million.
And so as I look at the overall picture those 2 kind of offset.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then maybe 2 strategic questions for Bob.
I guess interesting competitive chatter at some recent conferences Bob I wondered if you could comment.
The first is surrounding Glendale and the progress.
There is some discussion that perhaps Baxter's behind in their process at Glendale and the refurbishment.
Maybe help us understand where you think you are as it relates to Glendale and capacity at the back half of the year.
And then hemophilia competition which is obviously coming next year another strong hemophilia quarter for Baxter at this particular quarter.
Maybe talk just a little about what you're seeing on the strength of PK dosing and the larger 4 000-unit dose and how you expect that to trend this year.
Sure.
In terms of old L.A.
we're back in operation consistent with the timetable that we set up actually a little bit ahead of schedule.
So we're very pleased with getting that back in production for reasons that we all understand.
So no concerns on that issue.
Relative to the core hemophilia franchise we continue to see a momentum in the U.S.
in response to the PK dosing prophylaxis use and so on continue to be encouraged by that.
So as it relates to the momentum in that business particularly in the U.S.
and in view of new competitive entrants down the road fundamentally David I'd say no change in our position on that regard from what we've discussed with you previously.
I don't know Mary Kay if you want to add anything to that? No.
I was just going to say David we have started conformance lots in old L.A.
And as Bob mentioned we remain on track for clearance and to start shipping product in the third quarter so no change in expectations there.
And I'd also point out that the strong recombinant sales driven really by ADVATE in the U.S.
we are expecting to take out some inventory as we move throughout the year so we aren't expecting in our guidance to continue to see as strong a performance going forward.
Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on hemophilia.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks there's a -- there was sort of a contribution from competitive gains there's a contribution from increased penetration of prophylaxis and sort of utilization on the ADVATE side.
Could you maybe talk about what kind of share you're starting to see here competitively how much interest there is in this sort of flexible dosing model that you have? Yes.
I don't know Matt that we can add a lot more to my comments in response to David Lewis' question.
And we're not going to get into specific market share changes and "market shares" and so on.
Again as I've said before we get a good market response continue to get good market response for the PK dosing and prophylaxis use and so on which we're very encouraged by and it's consistent with what we had expected from the outset.
So beyond that I'm not sure that there's a lot more we can say or we want to say at this stage.
Yes.
I would just add that the good news here is that we have multiple avenues to drive accelerated growth going forward converting plasma-derived even with our own patient base converting on-demand to prophylaxis and then certainly for those patients that are looking for the opportunity to do less infusions on an annual basis moving towards PK dosing.
So again we're pursuing all those avenues and I think the 4 000 IU presentation is going to allow us to continue to drive the PK dosing going forward here.
Still somewhat early days because it was the third quarter of last year that we really started launching that but we're seeing progress on all 3 fronts.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's understandable.
And then the -- on the Alzheimer's program you mentioned wrapping up the trial in '15.
Just maybe walk us through if you could.
You have made some decent progress.
This is the second trial and about halfway through enrollments currently.
Can you walk through why it would take -- why expect it to take till '15 to complete that? Mary Kay why don't you handle that? Sure.
Matt as we mentioned in the prepared comments we have already enrolled about 200 of the 400 patients and we are expecting to complete enrollment by the end of this year.
As you recall the trial designed for the second Phase III is exactly similar to the first Phase III.
So it's an 18-month follow-up which would mean that we wouldn't complete the trial until mid-2015.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally just on the fluid systems in the quarter.
I didn't catch the color on why exactly the weakness there at least relative to our estimates.
It sounded like from your perspective the growth was in line or sort of was solid growth in the quarter but I guess maybe...
Yes.
Yes it was in line with our expectations.
But I think it's important to remember given the pace of activity in 2012 as we finalized the swap out of COLLEAGUE's and placed a lot of spectrums in the marketplace we expected going into 2013 that pump sales would be lower than 2012 again because of that elevated level of activity.
And as we look at results in the past they were again in line with our expectations and so no issues there.
Larry Keusch of Raymond James is on the line with a question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess for Bob Hombach.
The 2013 guidance when you take the first quarter and the guidance for the 2Q implies that you drive greater EPS in the back half of the year.
So could you just remind us again what are the drivers of the increased profitability in the second half of the year? Sure sure.
Multiple impacts here.
So first off we do expect to have enhanced flexibility on capacity and supply to the market in the plasma business as we move into the third quarter.
As we mentioned we are producing now and we expect to be able to start shipping product in the third quarter on the plasma front.
And just the way tenders have worked out this year if I step back and look at sales calendarization for 2013 for the company Q1 given some year-over-year comp issues around timing of tenders as well as this selling day issue we have 1 less day in Q1 we'll have 1 more in Q3.
Q2 and Q4 I would characterize as normal.
And then in Q3 in particular some significant emerging market-related tenders are scheduled this year versus prior years being in different quarters so we do expect accelerated top line growth related to that as well.
The benefits of our business optimization efforts that we announced at the end of the fourth quarter this year we'll start to see enhanced benefits from that as we move throughout the course of the year.
So those are just some of the key drivers.
And Larry I would just add just so everybody knows.
I mean gross margin we do expect to be lower in the second half as we bring the Gambro business into the mix.
So just so you have that it will be lower than the first half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just 2 other quick ones.
Can you just help us understand the implications of the warning letter on the Spectrum pump and how that folds into your guidance for this year? And then separately on the Phase III Alzheimer's data the first trial where you're expecting the top line results of it 2Q is that actually tied to a scientific meaning? Or is that sort of a press release as you finalize that data analysis? All right.
Let me -- I'll address the question on the warning letter.
Mary Kay why don't you respond on the Alzheimer's question? So the warning letter that was communicated earlier this week really has to do with the clearance status on some modifications that have been made to the SIGMA Spectrum pump over the years since the initial approval the initial 510(k) a number of years ago.
So the agency has requested additional information and documentation from us on those changes.
That was largely the basis of the warning letter.
The implications going forward is in response to your question Larry yes there will be some impact on that on sales for the rest of the year largely having to do with our focus.
And actually the -- per our discussions and agreement with the FDA we're going to continue to support service and place devices in our existing accounts.
The majority of our sales of SIGMA are into our existing account base.
However until we get these issues resolved submit the data get it reviewed which we would hope to get completed this fall and typically there'd be about a 90-day review period we are not going to place SIGMA devices in what I'll call new accounts or competitive accounts.
And so there is some sales and margin loss as a result of that action.
Obviously it didn't impact our overall sales guidance.
So does that answer your question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I take it you don't want to quantify how much you think you may lose.
I don't know.
Bob why don't you [indiscernible].
Yes yes.
Well yes I think I can at least frame for you what our expectation was.
So in our original 2013 guidance we assumed approximately $80 million in sales related to Spectrum in the U.S.
And so obviously we have 1 quarter under our belt and sales were approximately $20 million.
And then as Bob mentioned a little bit more than 1/2 of our sales were targeted to go towards existing customers as well.
So I think as you peel off the pieces here and you think about the last 9 months of the year and how much sales we had in the original expectation and the fact that a fair amount of that was targeted towards existing customers we think this is manageable within the context of the mid-products guidance as well as the overall company's sales and EPS guidance.
Mary Kay in Alzheimer's? Go ahead.
Larry the update on Alzheimer's.
So as we mentioned we did lock the database recently and we're in the process of analyzing the data.
So we do expect to issue a press release during the second quarter with the top line results.
I think as we mentioned last quarter we do plan to have the full data set available at an upcoming medical conference which is in July.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of cleanup questions here.
The issue you cited in the BioPharma Solutions the partnering business this quarter that sounds like it's been resolved.
Will there be a catch-up in the second quarter such that the business that you lost this quarter you'd get in the second quarter? It won't all be in the second quarter but most of it will be caught up Mike in the remainder of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On HyQ or HyQvia the preclinical work that you were doing for the FDA could you update us on where you are? Have you done the interim analysis for that? And can you give us some insights into when that will be presented to the agency? Go ahead Mary Kay.
Yes.
Mike we have the interim data.
And we do plan on meeting with the FDA in the second quarter as we had articulated at the last conference call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that anything that we will see that data? No.
But we'll be able to give you an update probably at the second quarter call on where we are with HyQ after the meeting with the FDA.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one more.
In the process here with Gambro have you been able to gain any additional insights into their business or anything that might change your views on integration or on the opportunity for the acquisition either short- or longer-term? No.
No major changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the -- and lastly then just on the performance of the renal side of the business this quarter you cited some austerity measures in China.
Can you maybe just call out what those were and anything else that [indiscernible] that? They were largely price reductions.
Bob why don't you comment? Yes.
Yes I mean we've characterized austerity overall as impacting top line and margin frankly by approximately $90 million for the full year.
China's about 1/3 of that not all of it related to the renal business but a good chunk of it is related to the renal business.
This is something that had been discussed for the last several years and they finally implemented a rebasing of the reimbursement level there.
And so we continue to have strong growth from a patient perspective working very closely with the government in China see great opportunities to continue to expand our footprint there but we are encountering a price reduction here in 2013 that's going to impact growth rates.
Matt Dodds of Citigroup in on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On Gambro do you have an update on where the EU regulatory authorities are for NHS? No.
I don't think it's appropriate for us to comment at this point in time.
We continue to work closely with them and that's all we can say at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for albumin up 2% similar with IG is that also entirely due to the constraints on the supply? Or is albumin that more of the -- your growth rate you're seeing? No no.
I mean we're continuing to sell all the albumin we can make and so we do have some seasonality to availability of supply given normal year-end shutdowns we do in most of our facilities and so on.
We do expect strong albumin growth throughout the course of the rest of the year so I think it's really just a Q1 phenomenon here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So most of the tenders you commented on in Q1 at the time that was plasma factor VIII? Yes that is correct Matt.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs in on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up a little more on the IVIG and albumin dynamics.
I -- understandably there are some factors influencing your growth rate right now.
But as we sort of look to the balance of the year and beyond that what do you think it's going to take for you to get back to growing at or above market rates? And I think most would say that IVIG is still growing at sort of high single-digit range and albumin probably tracking surgical volumes globally but -- what's the path to getting your business back toward kind of that sort of market growth rate in either of those franchises? More capacity.
Go ahead Bob.
I don't...
Yes.
I mean I think this really is -- I mean we continue to see very strong demand for our product.
As you know because of the constraints we've had we've had to be very selective about which markets outside the U.S.
we even participate in as an example.
And so I -- we do continue to see strong demand for IGs globally and so what we expect as we bring meaningful capacity online here and get old L.A.
back into a mode where we can sell the product commercially that we're going to be able to participate at least at market growth rates going forward.
And as it relates to albumin while I would say your characterization around -- in most countries this tracking with surgical volumes and so on is probably pretty good with the exception of China which I think continues to be in a situation where because of decisions they've taken locally about shutting down collection and so on they're going to continue to import a significant amount of albumin going forward.
And that's one I think that offers an opportunity us for here -- for us to continue to grow as we have more capacity come online.
And that looks to be a long-term opportunity also.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then some of the decisions that you've taken in Europe obviously makes sense given the capacity constraints and the relative pricing environment but do you think that has any impact on your ability to launch HyQ there and gain traction? Is there something that has to happen from a tender perspective for you to get that product on the market? Or is there enough of a sort of high-end segment of the market that would be able to adopt it at reasonable ASPs pretty quickly? Yes.
I think a couple of factors.
Number one I mean we do -- we are very excited about the opportunity both in Europe and the U.S.
for HyQ.
We think this is a significant improvement for patients from a convenient standpoint while offering all the safety and efficacy that we see in our base product.
And so over the long-term we think HyQ is a great opportunity.
But as we hopefully get approval here and can launch in the back half of 2013 in Europe it's going to be a controlled launch.
We have the issue of capacity to consider here as well.
But we are still in a number of important markets in Western Europe as an example and so I think there's plenty of opportunity within the markets we're a major participant in today to initially launch HyQ.
We are going to launch at a premium because we do think the product given its characteristics and convenience that it offers is worthy of a meaningful premium.
And so again we're going to do a controlled launch ensure our patients and treaters are aware of the process for the enhanced therapy and that it gets off to a very good start because we do want to make sure this is successful over the long-term.
So in the near-term I don't see this being an issue in terms of market participation in Europe because the key markets we would likely launch HyQ in anyway were already in still with IGs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and maybe just one financial question.
As I look at the SG&amp;A number this quarter as a percentage of revenue I think that's the highest it's been in quite some time and you did cite some promotional activities and investments that you're making.
But how should we think about the opportunity for leverage on the discretionary line items going forward? Are you entering more of an investment period to drive top line growth in areas like emerging markets? Or is there something sort of more one-off in the first quarter whereby that line item should start to look a little bit more like it has in the past going forward? Yes.
I think a couple of dynamics.
For the full year for sure as I mentioned in my prepared comments we expect in the base Baxter expense base we're going to drive leverage relative to sales for the full year.
Q1 has some interesting dynamics.
Obviously given the issues in our pharma partnering business we came in a little bit lower on the top line in the quarter.
As it relates to things like pension expense that accounted for about 1.5% of growth in the quarter given that impact for the full year.
As I mentioned our business optimization efforts will provide increasing benefits as we move throughout the course of the year.
We have been and will continue to make the right investments to ensure we can enhance our position in emerging and developing markets so no change there.
We do have some additional spending in advance of some of the key product launches like we've discussed today around HyQ and also Home HD which we've made good progress on the trial as Bob mentioned in his comments and look for CE Mark here in Europe.
So I think it's a balance of targeted investment for the growth opportunities we have and leveraging our existing base through process reengineering.
Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I just wanted to clarify in the other income line that you had said that that did include $10 million of a gain related to a sale of an intangible.
Any color on that? Yes -- no I mean it's an arrangement we had in a country so I don't think it's something we want to get into a lot of detail around.
It is a one-off.
But as I mentioned the other driver there was FX and other income.
It's not something we planned or expect to incur again.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just kind of walking through the gross margin it sounds like that was more moderated.
Is that simply all foreign currency? Or is that any other thing impacting your expectations on the gross margin line? Yes.
It definitely is currency-related.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then any update on the recombinant von Willebrand products in terms of the trial or expected launch or approval for filing? Yes.
Kristen I think we had mentioned that we had completed enrollment in the end of fourth quarter and we actually have now completed the dosing of the last patient.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then when might you be in the position to I guess file with the FDA on that? Well there's a 12-month follow-up so we will complete the trial probably beginning of next year and file next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just lastly Mary Kay I think you had mentioned on ADVATE that you are planning on taking down inventory for the balance of the year.
Could you just maybe explain why that is? Yes.
Kristen I think we've talked throughout the course of a few quarters last year there has been some shakeout in the U.S.
amongst the SPPs from a market share standpoint.
And as a result one of our key customers has gotten in the situation where they've lost some share and we're working with them to rightsize their inventory level given that new share situation.
And so I think over the next several quarters we're talking in the range of approximately $15 million that we'll be working off from a U.S.
recombinant standpoint.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick things.
First just given the visibility of the Alzheimer's program I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more of a direct sense on timing within the second quarter.
Should we expect that's more a first half disclosure or a second half disclosure? And have you -- just give us a little update on exactly what you'll be presenting within those headline results in the press release.
Go ahead Mary Kay.
Right.
Yes.
I would say we can't be more specific.
As we mentioned we locked the database and we're working diligently with our partner on this ADCS and so we're certainly as motivated as everyone to get the results compiled and be able to release those.
As we mentioned earlier it will be in the form initially of a press release for the top line results of the 2 primary endpoints and some subgroup analysis related to mild versus moderate and APOE-4 versus non-APOE-4.
Those are the stratifications that we'll be able to provide initially.
And as Mary Kay mentioned then the full data set at a conference likely in July.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then the other question I have was just -- I was wondering if you could give us an update on the 855 program just in terms of milestones and timeline that we should expect for the rest this year and going forward given that obviously a pretty important program from a competitive perspective.
Thanks Bob.
BAX 855 we started the Phase III trial and we began dosing patients during the first quarter.
This trial includes over 100 patients and we expect to complete enrollment by the end of this year and we are remaining on track to file sometime next year.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then just last pipeline question for me.
I realize this is a bit of a softball question but can you just give me a sense of the best case scenario on HyQ in the U.S.? If things go as well as you hope they could possibly go what would that mean from a timing perspective? Yes.
We're not -- I don't think we're going to speculate on that.
Obviously we have our meeting with the FDA which we've described.
We were encouraged by the progress we've made in Europe.
Hopefully that will be helpful with our discussions here in the U.S.
But I think Bob to speculate beyond that we don't want to do that.
So...
Bob just recall though that we aren't going to complete the pre-clinical trial till the end of this year.
So obviously we'll have more information once we meet with the FDA on the interim results.
Our next question comes from Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm curious Bob if you can give us your interpretation of what's occurring in the U.S.
with respect to utilization.
We've seen hospitals now preannounce disappointing results some lab companies as well.
Do you think we're seeing a heightened seasonality in the fourth quarter and that's pulling sales from the first quarter? Just any color you can provide.
I think the market is soft.
It's going to continue to remain soft I think is our view.
I think as it relates to our products given the nature the medically necessary nature of our products the impact will be modest.
But I think to suggest that you're going to see a turnaround Glenn from the softness we've seen over the last quarter or so would probably be a little too optimistic.
I just think the market conditions are going to continue to be very challenging.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up a lot of investors ask me about 2014 with respect to health care reform should we anticipate a volume bump? What are your thoughts on that? I wouldn't -- I don't anticipate to see any meaningful incremental impact on our business due to evolving health care reform implementation and so on.
So whether it's 2014 Glenn or out over the long-range plan frankly our views going forward haven't changed from our investor conference last fall on this.
So -- look the -- we all know what the general dynamics are globally even outside the U.S.
which is a difficult economic environment health care costs continue to rise at a rate that is beyond any government's ability to control and there are going to continue to be impacts that we characterize as "austerity measures" on health care spending that I think are going to continue to impact all multinational companies whether it's in the U.S.
or outside the U.S.
But again -- and I would not suggest that we're impervious to those kinds of impacts but they will be evolutionary in nature.
They're not going to be major step-function impacts.
And again as I said earlier I'd emphasized given the medically necessary nature of our products we think we're going to be able to withstand this certainly reasonably well.
And where the focus really is as it always has been in this industry is innovation.
And with our emerging pipeline not to mention the expanding capacity position over time on plasma proteins and continued robust demand for those products that's where our focus is.
And we certainly can I think withstand the general macro dynamics that we discussed.
Our final question comes from Rick Wise with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> May -- if I could ask a little more color on the home hemo program it seems to be clearly on track as you've suggested in the past.
Maybe just remind us again when the trial wraps up what the filing and approval timing process is.
And I keep thinking that just given the current market dynamics that this is a more promising program than ever.
Any thoughts again if -- about the potential penetration or the opportunity here? I'll take the first half of the question Rick and then Bob can take the market opportunity part of your question.
But in terms of the trial the Canadian trial is going to be wrapping up here in the second quarter and then we'll be wrapping up the submission.
And we expect the CE Marking by the end of this year.
As you recall in the U.S.
we're still in discussions with the FDA as to whether or not they will require 1 or 2 trials here in the U.S.
But we're still planning for a nocturnal indication filing in 2014.
So Rick Bob Parkinson here maybe just to wrap up on the kind of the higher level question.
We continue to be extremely enthusiastic about the opportunity associated with home -- our home hemodialysis product which we think has a number of dimensions or characteristics that can differentiate it from the home hemo products that are on the market today not to mention to leverage our global position as really the leading dialysis provider in the home setting which has real value here.
I think when you take a step back and look at this this is the kind of product that is responsive to I think the new realities of the global economic environment and health care environment.
The opportunity to enhance clinical outcomes we think meaningfully particularly with home nocturnal hemo to provide as a result increased convenience for the patient to deliver therapy in their home and to do it in a way that fundamentally lowers the cost versus conventional in-center hemodialysis is really the kinds of products going forward that we think there's going to be a great response in the marketplace to.
The only caveat I would say is the nature of this requires a motivated patient.
That doesn't describe 100% of the patient population.
So in no way do I want to suggest that that traditional home in-center hemo is going to continue to be both the growth vehicle and the primary therapy to address end-stage renal disease hence our excitement about the Gambro acquisition.
But I appreciate your question because I think as we go forward get this product launched in Europe and expand beyond that this is a product opportunity that's very significant for the company going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And just last quick one on China.
I want to make sure I understood what -- Bob Hombach you were talking about in your med product comment China austerity.
I just want to make sure I understood what you were talking about.
And I hope I didn't miss it but did you talk about the timing of ADVATE reimbursement? I don't think you've gotten it yet.
When are you expecting that and when are you expecting that Chinese launch? Yes -- no my comments about reimbursement adjustment down relates specifically to the renal business.
We have got -- the launch of ADVATE in China is going to be -- it will take a long time to play out.
The treatment rates today in China for hemophiliacs are very low even on plasma-derived.
So we've got a long way to go to develop that market but that's one that could be primed for some of our approaches here around public-private partnerships.
But we're a long way from anything there.
Yes.
Rick we are waiting reimbursement approval.
You may recall we did get approval for the product last year.
But we can't launch until we have the reimbursement approved which we expect in the second half of this year.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's second quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Sean and good morning everyone and welcome to our Q2 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer; and Ludwig Hantson President BioScience.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for calling in.
As you all saw on the press release that was issued earlier this morning Baxter reported solid second quarter financial results with earnings that topped our guidance and we've also confirmed our outlook for the full year 2013.
In the second quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share increased 4% to $1.16 and worldwide sales excluding currency also increased 4%.
Our financial outlook for the full year now includes sales growth of 8% to 9% on a constant currency basis and adjusted earnings of $4.62 to $4.70 per diluted share.
As a reminder our guidance does reflect the impact of the Gambro acquisition which is expected to close in the third quarter.
While we continue to meet our financial objectives Baxter is also advancing care across key franchises in both developed and emerging markets while focusing on innovation and R&amp;D programs that will fuel future growth and enhance value for shareholders.
This is evidenced by a number of recent commercial operational and R&amp;D achievements including commencement of shipments to Hemobras in Brazil to enhance access to Baxter's recombinant Factor VIII therapy for the treatment of hemophilia.
Through this innovative partnership Baxter will be the exclusive provider of Baxter's recombinant -- or Brazil's recombinant Factor VIII treatment over the next 10 years while we work together on the technology transfer to support development of local manufacturing capabilities.
As you may recall we expect peak annual sales related to this partnership to exceed $200 million.
We submitted the regulatory supplement related to the planned modification at Baxter's older Los Angeles plasma fractionation facility and with the acceptance of this submission by the FDA we expect to begin releasing product in the coming days.
We received marketing authorization from the European Commission for the use of HyQvia as a replacement therapy for adult patients with primary and secondary immunodeficiencies.
HyQvia offers patients the ability to administer their treatment in a single subcutaneous site every 3 to 4 weeks.
This represents an important advance for patients who are managing a chronic disease as HyQvia combines key benefits of intravenous and subcutaneous administration into one product.
We expect to introduce HyQvia in select countries beginning in the third quarter and we'll expand the launch to additional countries in 2014.
And in the U.S.
I'm pleased to report that our ongoing dialogue with the FDA regarding HyQvia has been both productive and encouraging.
As a result we're on track to submit additional data to the FDA before the end of this year to address questions raised in the complete response letter and we're on a regulatory path to file an amendment to our BLA.
As always we'll update you as necessary on our continued progress.
Also in the quarter we received FDA approval of RIXUBIS for routine prophylactic treatment control of bleeding episodes and perioperative management in adults with hemophilia B.
RIXUBIS is the first new recombinant Factor IX approved for hemophilia B in more than 15 years and is the only recombinant factor IX indicated for both prophylaxis and control of bleeding episodes.
The approval is based on a Phase I/III study demonstrating that twice-weekly prophylactic treatment with RIXUBIS 6 months achieved a median annualized bleed rate of 2.0 bleeds with 43% of patients experiencing no bleeds.
We also continue to advance the development of Baxter's Home Hemodialysis device VIVIA.
As you know in 2012 we completed the first clinical trial in the U.S.
evaluating the performance and safety of the device and recently concluded the in-center nocturnal hemodialysis trial in Canada.
Data from both trials will be used to support CE Marking in Europe later this year.
We also completed the enrollment in the pivotal Phase III study of rigosertib for patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome or MDS as part of our ongoing collaboration with Onconova Therapeutics.
The primary endpoint for this study is overall survival and top line results are expected during the first quarter of 2014.
As you may recall Baxter has obtained exclusive licensing rights for all potential indications of rigosertib in Europe.
And finally earlier this week additional data was presented from the Phase III Gammaglobulin Alzheimer's Partnership study including certain post-op and exploratory analyses of biomarker and imaging data during the Alzheimer's Association International Conference in Boston.
As previously disclosed the Phase III clinical trial did not meet its co-primary endpoints of reducing cognitive decline and preserving functional abilities in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
While the study was not powered to show statistical significance among the subgroups findings in moderate disease patients and ApoE4 carriers are intriguing and may contribute to a better understanding of the disease.
We'll continue to analyze the data we've collected and we'll evaluate our approach and next steps for the Alzheimer's program by collaborating with scientific experts in the field of Alzheimer's research.
In closing the global environment in which we operate continues to be challenging.
Yet we remain confident in our business model our ability to innovate and the prospects for growth and the future of our company.
We'll continue to focus on achieving solid financial performance enhancing our commercial and operational effectiveness and advancing Baxter's contribution to expanding access to quality care through innovation and collaboration.
Baxter's portfolio remains strong as we benefit from our focus on life-saving therapies and the 4 growth factors that we previously discussed that support our strategic objectives and enable us to fulfill our mission.
As always I'd be happy to address any questions on these or other topics during the Q&amp;A this morning.
But first with that I'd like to ask Bob to review the financial results in more detail for the second quarter and also guidance for the remainder of 2013.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the second quarter excluding special items increased 4% to $1.16 per diluted share which exceeded our guidance range of $1.12 to $1.14 per diluted share.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP results include after-tax special items of $49 million or $0.09 per diluted share primarily for costs associated with the acquisition of Gambro AB.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item for the quarter before turning to our financial outlook for the full year 2013.
Starting with sales worldwide sales of approximately $3.7 billion grew 3% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 4% in line with our guidance.
Growth improved sequentially by 200 basis points and was driven by acceleration in Renal and across several key franchises within BioScience as well as emerging markets particularly the BRIC countries where growth exceeded 20% in the quarter.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales exceeded $1.6 billion and advanced 5% in the second quarter.
And on a constant currency basis sales accelerated 6%.
Within the product categories hemophilia sales of $849 million increased 2%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 4% driven by solid global demand for ADVATE and FEIBA which was augmented by a benefit from certain tenders and an initial recombinant Factor VIII shipment to Brazil as part of our ongoing partnership with Hemobras.
In BioTherapeutics sales of $513 million increased 6% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Growth improved sequentially driven by accelerated sales of albumin particularly in China while growth of our immunoglobulin therapies remained in low single digits.
Sales in BioSurgery of $178 million increased 2% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
This performance was driven by Synovis and solid growth in international markets including sales for surgical sealants like TISSEEL and FLOSEAL.
Finally vaccine revenues totaled $98 million the quarter and increased 24%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 30% driven primarily by milestone payments related to our ongoing collaborations on the development of influenza vaccines and strong performance of our core vaccines NeisVac and FSME.
In Medical Products global sales in the second quarter exceeded $2 billion and increased 1%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 2%.
Within the product categories Renal sales totaled $654 million and increased 3%.
On a constant currency basis sales advanced 5% driven by strong PD patient gains in the U.S.
and emerging markets.
Sales in the Fluid Systems category of $755 million increased 2% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Performance continues to be driven by solid demand for IV solutions and price improvements for the injectable oncology drug cyclophosphamide which collectively more than offset lower sales of infusion pumps.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals which includes our inhaled anesthetics and nutritional therapies posted sales of $366 million reflecting an increase of 1% on a reported and constant currency basis.
Strong anesthesia growth offset lower sales of nutritional therapies resulting from supplier shortages of distributed products.
Finally sales in BioPharma Solutions which is our pharma partnering business totaled $254 million and declined 4% on a reported basis or 3% on a constant currency basis.
This was a result of constraints we discussed last quarter which affected the timing of shipments to customers.
We expect this business to return to growth in the second half of the year as we ramp production to match demand.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross sales in the -- excuse me gross margin in the quarter of 52.3% was better than our expectation and reflects an improvement sequentially of 130 basis points.
Gross margin also expanded by 50 basis points versus the prior year margin of 51.8%.
The year-over-year improvement was a result of mixed improvements and the benefit from foreign currency hedging which offset a number of headwinds including incremental pension expense the medical device tax and government austerity measures.
SG&amp;A totaled $815 million an increase of 3% driven by the impact of incremental pension expense and investments we are making in promotional and marketing activities new product launches and within international markets to enhance our global presence.
In total these items more than offset a benefit from foreign currency and tight management of discretionary spending and operational efficiencies derived from our process reengineering efforts.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $255 million increased sequentially by 4% but declined 8% versus the prior year period as expected.
You may recall that last year we incurred approximately $20 million of accelerated and discrete items including various milestone payments and expedited supplies of product for use in a number of ongoing clinical trials creating a difficult comparison year-over-year.
Given the number of items Bob discussed earlier it is clear that we continue to make investments to advance a number of programs in our pipeline including those in our leading hemophilia franchise our Home HD therapy as well as earlier-stage programs and key collaborations.
The operating margin in the quarter of 23.1% improved 120 basis points versus the prior year.
Interest expense was $17 million compared to $22 million last year as incremental interest linked to recent debt issuances was more than offset by an unplanned onetime gain of $11 million associated with hedges related to the recent bond issuance to finance the Gambro transaction.
This gain was offset by unplanned costs of $13 million which booked to other income and expense associated with a bridge loan facility put in place to finance Gambro.
Collectively these 2 items did not have a material impact on our quarterly results.
The tax rate was 22% for the quarter in line with our expectations and as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.16 increased 4%.
Turning to cash flow.
On a year-to-date basis cash flow from operations exceeded $1.1 billion and capital expenditures totaled $639 million in line with our expectations.
Compared to prior year cash flow from operations is down by $265 million largely due to the timing of U.S.
tax payments which was an incremental $150 million in the second quarter and a significant collection of aged receivables in Spain last year which totaled approximately $200 million.
Excluding these 2 items cash flow from operations grew approximately 6%.
DSO ended the quarter at 53.5 days similar to last year and was higher than the prior year period by 1.4 days due to the year-over-year comparison in Spain and higher DSOs in other international markets.
Inventory turns of 2.2 turns are similar to last quarter and modestly lower than the prior year period.
As you know we continue to increase inventory levels to support growing demand particularly in plasma proteins as we remain on track to benefit from enhanced capacity in the second half of the year.
Lastly on a year-to-date basis we repurchased approximately 10 million shares for $717 million or on a net basis 4 million shares for $396 million in line with our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the full year 2013.
As you saw in the press release we confirmed guidance and expect earnings of $4.62 to $4.70 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of the Gambro acquisition which is projected to close during the third quarter.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we now expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 8% to 9%.
And this includes a contribution from Gambro revenues of $575 million to $650 million.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales growth of the 7% to 8%.
Excluding Gambro we continue to expect sales growth on a constant currency basis of approximately 4%.
For the full year we expect gross margin for the company to be approximately 51.0%.
This includes margin expansion in the base Baxter business which will be offset by Gambro.
In terms of expenses we now expect SG&amp;A to increase in high single digits and R&amp;D to grow in mid-single digits.
Both line items reflect leverage in the Baxter expense base along with the addition of Gambro.
We now expect interest expense to total approximately $140 million which includes the gain in the second quarter we discussed earlier and other income to total approximately $10 million for the full year.
We continue to expect a tax rate of approximately 22% and we expect a full year average share count of approximately 550 million shares which assumes approximately 400 million in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective our plan remains to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $3.3 billion which excludes any cash cost associated with the Gambro transaction.
We continue to expect capital expenditures totaling approximately $1.7 billion which includes Gambro and the investments we are making to enhance our plasma manufacturing footprint in Covington Georgia.
Let me move to sales and expand on our assumptions for the 2 businesses and the major product categories.
Beginning with Medical Products on a constant currency basis including the contribution of Gambro we expect sales growth of 10% to 12%.
Excluding Gambro we expect sales for Medical Products to grow 3% to 4%.
Specifically we expect Baxter's Renal sales to grow in low single digits which will be augmented by the contribution from Gambro revenues totaling $575 million to $650 million.
We continue to expect Fluid Systems sales which includes IV solutions infusion pumps and access sets to grow in mid-single digits.
We expect Specialty Pharmaceutical sales which includes our nutritional therapies and inhaled anesthetics to grow in low single digits.
And we expect our BioPharma Solutions business to have comparable sales to 2012 of approximately $1 billion.
For BioScience we continue to project sales growth excluding foreign currency in the 4% to 5% range.
Our outlook includes mid-single digit growth in our hemophilia franchise which includes recombinant and plasma-derived Factor VIII and Factor IX therapies and FEIBA an inhibitor treatment.
Growth will continue to be fueled by underlying demand for ADVATE where we continue to realize benefits associated with the new expanded label including competitive gains and conversion to prophylaxis treatment.
We expect mid-single-digit sales growth in BioTherapeutics which includes IG therapies albumin and Alpha-1 treatments.
This is the result of our enhanced capacity which will allow us to exit the year with volume growth in the U.S.
for our immunoglobulin therapies in the 6% to 8% range and includes annual sales of subcu therapies of approximately $100 million.
In BioSurgery we expect mid to high single-digit growth.
And finally we now expect our vaccine franchise to grow more than 10%.
As mentioned in our press release for the third quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.18 to $1.21.
Including revenues associated with the Gambro acquisition we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 10% to 13% or approximately 9% to 12% including the impact of foreign currency.
Excluding Gambro we expect the base Baxter sales at constant currency rates to grow approximately 6%.
Thanks and now let me open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Larry Keusch of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First off I know that you guys had some issues in the Renal business in China that you mentioned last quarter so if you could just sort of give us an update there that would be great.
Yes I think what we mentioned last quarter Larry was that there was a price reduction mandated in China and that we had factored that into our outlook and update.
So really no new change there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 other quick ones for you guys.
First off on the -- Bob on the revised guidance that you're providing for 2013 does that contemplate a divestiture to be made upon the acquisition of Gambro? Yes.
As was I think disclosed recently here the one remedy that we need to execute here in order to close the transaction is to divest our existing CRRT business which we acquired from Edwards back I believe in 2008.
It's a relatively small business about $50 million in annual revenues with frankly below corporate average margins.
And so that is something that we will look to divest but the net-net of that will not have an impact on our outlook and it's factored into our guidance here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Bob just now that it appears that we are probably in an environment where interest rates are going to certainly be stable if not rising.
Can you remind us again what the headwind was associated with the discount rate and the pension expense this year and perhaps a sensitivity as interest rates move to what that could mean next year? Sure.
We talked about approximately $0.09 per share negative headwind in 2013 given how much the discount rate moved late last year.
And obviously rates have gone up quite a bit but the 10-year was at 2.7% not too long ago and this morning it's heading towards 2.45%.
So I think if you tried to peg it at the middle of the year for the last 2 years you would have gotten burned pretty badly by the time we get to December when the discount rate is set on December 31.
But just to give you a sense I think we've talked about previously that every 25-basis-point move is approximately $20 million in pension expense.
Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to do the math here on Gambro.
So if we think about the Gambro sales run rate today is it in about the -- call it the $1.65 billion if I annualize it? Is that about right? Yes I think that's -- yes yes it's roughly 140 -- 135 140 a month yes.
Yes.
Mike remember we had about $830 million in our original guidance which assumes midyear close.
So if you double that you get right in the ballpark of your number.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And maybe just go back on a couple of the updates that you gave.
One it sounds like on the HyQvia conversation it's basically -- basically you're saying the same thing that you were kind of originally thinking which is that we'll do this additional preclinical work we'll do the full follow-up rather than just the interim look and once we have that full data set we'll submit that in the amended filing to the FDA which will be late this year and hopefully if all goes well we'll get an approval later in 2014.
Is that accurate basically with what you originally thought? Yes that's a -- I think that's a good summary Mike.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you just spend a minute on Home Hemo and VIVIA so assuming you get the CE Mark later this year what it means to have that approval as we go to 2014 and how much time you're going to spend in dollars on trying to develop the market in Europe? Yes.
Mike Bob Parkinson here.
We're not going to quantify what the impact is 2014 but I think it's fair to say that we're going to launch this product in a very disciplined way.
We are very bullish on the long-term prospects associated with Home Hemo particularly home nocturnal hemo.
We are though launching a product and really a system that is reasonably complex.
And so establishing the reliability of the product its performance and so on is something that's critical.
And as you mentioned concurrently we are going to make fairly significant commitments in terms of market development given -- investment given the long-term potential that exists here.
So I think as it relates to near-term impact for Home Hemo I think realistically the impact will be relatively modest in 2014 but that doesn't detract from our long-term view on how significant this new therapy could be.
David Lewis of Morgan Stanley is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> Bob I thought maybe we'd just go back to the LRP for a second.
If we go back several months ago I think you laid out 7% to 9% earnings growth but obviously the lower end of that range for the first couple of years.
And just a couple of questions on that.
Is it fair to assume the lower end of that range incorporates potential early ADVATE competition and potential generic pressure? And then I wonder if you could just give us an update in terms of Gambro the financing terms on Gambro either on timing tax that would impact accretion in 2014 versus what you've given us previously.
Yes.
David Bob Parkinson here.
Let me take the first part of that.
Maybe Bob Hombach can take -- actually add to my comments on the first part and if you'll handle the second part.
Our outlook going forward not just for '14 but beyond is very much aligned with what we communicated at our investor conference last fall.
As Bob took the group through however we do feel the earlier years of the LRP will be at the lower end of the range due to a number of factors and will accelerate throughout the 5-year LRP period.
Now specifically to the couple of points you made a couple of the headwinds I guess going forward for -- into 2014 one would be new competitive recombinant Factor VIII launches was in fact contemplated in the outlook that we provided.
Now obviously your ability to quantify that and contemplate it exactly as plus or minus one way or the other is subject to the assumptions.
But we did reflect impact of new competitive Factor VIII launches.
Likewise we reflected in the earlier years certainly of the LRP impact of prospective generic launches predominantly associated with 2 areas one being SUPRANE our leading anesthetic agent and the second being cyclophosphamide an oncology agent.
Again forecasting or speculating what the timing of competitive launches might be what the impact might be is difficult.
But we did our best to quantify something in the early stages.
So that was to some degree reflected in the lower numbers in the earlier years of the LRP.
Since we met with the group last fall I think it's reasonable to say global austerity measures continue to -- not only continue to exist but probably intensify.
Again we tried to reflect that in our long-range plan.
Whether we did that adequately or not is to be determined.
Now on the other hand of course in terms of potential tailwinds as you know we hadn't finalized the Gambro deal when we were together last fall.
And so that's a positive relative to the numbers that we disclosed.
The question previously was asked by Larry on the pension so we'll see where that shakes out.
We did reflect in the LRP impact of new product momentum from recombinant Factor IX to HyQvia to Home HD FEIBA prophy and so on.
But again I think that only becomes material in a significant way as we move into 2015.
So there's some non-recurring things that were impacted in 2013 such as the device tax and so on.
So that kind of summarizes some of the major headwinds and tailwinds but I think it's fair to say that our outlook for the long-range plan does not differ meaningfully from what we disclosed last year.
The earlier years will be somewhat at the lower end of the range.
And of course you got some variables here that are difficult to quantify that could be big such as generic incursion on things like SUPRANE and cyclophosphamide and so on.
So I'll stop there.
Bob I don't know if you want to add anything to add.
Maybe give David a chance to respond to that and we can...
Yes yes.
Just a couple of quick things to frame this.
Between SUPRANE and cyclophosphamide they're about $600 million in sales plus or minus at above-average corporate margins.
So that's kind of the base of business as we think about generic competition coming in at '14.
And as Bob mentioned timing and approach obviously has a big impact there.
We've tried to gauge that as best as we can.
I would just mention on pension we did -- I have talked about in the past the main driver of increasing pension expense the last several years has been amortization of actuarial losses that were accumulated primarily in 2008.
And even if interest rates don't improve over the LRP we were going to see some benefit as we amortize off those 2008 losses.
And some of that is already baked into our 2014 expectation in the long-range plan.
As it relates to Gambro I would say at this point clearly what we've said in the past around approximately $0.10 to $0.15 of dilution for 2014 was a function of a number of things including most importantly the timing of the close of the transaction because the non-cash intangible amortization was the #1 driver of the dilution and that's linear.
We still don't know exactly what that number is going to be so it still is an estimate.
But some of the other things that would drive this such as the financing we do now know where we're at and that did come in favorable.
So given the fact that we shifted the timing out here a bit and the financing has come in favorable I would characterize our current assumption around dilution in 2013 related to Gambro in the $0.06 to $0.08 range at this point and so clearly better than what we have previously assumed.
I would say that the major offset to that in the back half of 2013 here for us is really emerging market FX.
Clearly rates -- excuse me FX rates in emerging markets whether you're talking about Turkey Colombia Brazil even places like Australia have moved double-digit plus against us here since really early second quarter.
And so we've reflected call it $0.04 to $0.05 of downside in the back half of the year in our latest expectation here which I think largely offsets some of the benefits here we're seeing on the Gambro side.
And then finally on the tax piece related to Gambro I've talked about the fact that we think there may be opportunities there to do better than what we have in our model.
But until we close the transaction and really get a better sense of the attributes we'll have at our disposal here around loss carryforwards and other deductions we might be able to utilize it's premature to speculate on what that might mean to '14 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> I feel like I got more than I could have hoped for.
But if I could sneak in just 2 more quick ones.
First question just BioTherapeutics guidance it looks like it came down very very slightly for the back half of the year.
Maybe could you help us -- if I heard that right could you help us with the drivers of that? And then maybe Bob Hombach if you're going to make a decision on cash earnings for Baxter is that a decision that gets made in October when you officially close Gambro or more likely a decision that gets made in January with '14 guidance? Bob why don't you handle both of those.
Yes and I'll start with the second one first.
Yes I think that's a decision that we're still thinking through whether we're going to do it and then certainly timing of implementation the later we get in this year I think the greater the likelihood it's a 2014 implementation just given the complexities around what that might look like.
But that's still TBD here as we work through this.
The one thing that I would highlight and one of the reasons why we're considering it as we are between what we're already incurring about $100 million a year in non-cash intangible amortization and our estimate of about $140 million we'd be adding with the Gambro transaction you're talking about almost 150-basis-point impact on our gross margin.
And given that it's non-cash I think that creates an ever-increasing gap between our cash flow and EBITDA margin profile versus what we're reporting on our P&amp;L.
So that's one of the key things we're taking into consideration.
As it relates to BioT we did adjust down slightly our expectations in the back half.
I think that's a function of a number of things.
I'll make some comments.
And certainly we have Ludwig Hantson here today as well the President of the BioScience business.
He can jump in as well.
I think we're pleased with where we're at with old LA and the ramp-up in production that we're seeing and the ability to be in a much stronger position from a supply standpoint as we move through the back half of this year.
And as I mentioned in my commentary we will be exiting the year being able to support at least 6% to 8% growth from a volume perspective here going forward which we're very pleased with.
But given where we're at on a couple of key things namely HyQvia I think we're going to be very thoughtful about how we approach the market here in the coming months and make sure we're positioning ourselves for the long term.
So Ludwig I don't know if you want to make a comment or 2 here.
Sure.
Thanks Bob.
As I mentioned before 2013 is a transition year for us especially from a manufacturing perspective.
If you look at our sales growth you'll see that we are accelerating our sales growth.
And we expect that for the second half of this year we will continue to see acceleration which is driven by as I've said the manufacturing output.
But it is a transition year since old LA is coming onboard the second half of this year and we have 2 dimensions that we need to put into the equation here.
First of all we need to prepare for the HyQ launch so that means that we have to build a Baxter inventory to get ready for the launch as well as as you know we've had back orders over the last couple of years on the IG side.
So we have to make sure that we do -- have better supply management with our customers.
So that's what's bringing the guidance down a little bit.
So overall I would say it's maybe a positive news on HyQ here.
Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> One on hemophilia.
Bob you mentioned I think it was Bob Hombach mentioned some of the progress around PK dosing -- or rather around prophylaxis and share gains so far with the IV8 [ph] label.
I'm wondering if you could give us an update on where the uptake or interest has been on the convenience dosing side of that new label and what that tells you if anything about the demand for this convenience dosing product over the long term and the coming competitive products expected say this time next year.
Okay.
Ludwig why don't you handle that? Yes.
So let me start with the big picture here what we're trying to achieve with all our hemophilia products and that is we're trying to strive for bleed-free world.
That's what we're doing with IV8 [ph].
That's also what we are doing with FEIBA prophy as well as our RIXUBIS approval.
It's the first product with a prophy indication.
So we're trying to move to a bleed-free world.
So that's the most important thing here.
With respect to your question on PK dosing so we've rolled this out in the U.S.
last year.
As I mentioned we had a phased approach where we start at the beginning of the year with the high level of moving to prophy dosing and then midst of the year we launched the PK aspect of it.
So we're in the midst of this launch.
We saw 200 conversions in the U.S.
last year.
Year to date we've seen 100 conversions to prophy and PK dosing so this is work in progress.
But clearly we see a nice uptick.
In addition to the United States we are working now with the European regulatory body to also get PK dosing in the label.
We're very close and we're looking at a potential launch of PK dosing very soon as well.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned shipment in the quarter related to the partnership that you have internationally in hemo.
Can you quantify that or give us some sense of what the impact there was? Sure.
Go ahead Bob.
Yes.
As I mentioned the initial shipment it was a modest shipment a little less than $10 million.
So we're just getting started.
But again very excited about the opportunities to ramp that up as we move throughout the course of this year and certainly through the LRP.
Research Division</strong> And then on the other side Medical Products side of the business with the overseas approval now for Gambro and that transaction going forward the Renal business did just a touch better in the second quarter.
I'd love to hear any initial response that you've had from whether it's customers or whether it's health care systems internationally on the pulling together these 2 businesses and just maybe what the early read is from the market on what you're doing there.
Yes Matt.
Bob Parkinson here.
It is early and as a result really only anecdotal.
But we have gotten feedback from customers actually around the world I think that are generally pleased with the fact that there will be a new entity if you will that can offer the broad spectrum of products in the Renal area.
I think many customers have felt they've been limited in terms of choice in that regard and as a result I think there's a pretty high degree of anticipation once we get this deal closed that we'll be able to collaborate with them more broadly than what we did previously.
As I've commented earlier too I think once we have the full line of products it will fit very nicely into what I've described as vector 4 of our long-term growth which is public-private partnerships and our ability to collaborate in a different way with governments or payors to assist them in dealing with the escalating costs associated with treating what is a growing population wherever you go in the world with people that have end-stage renal disease.
So for lack of a better way to describe it I guess once we have all the clubs in our bags so to speak I think we'll be in a great position to collaborate with the payors.
But again as I pointed out let's get the deal closed first and let those things then actually materialize.
Research Division</strong> And then finally just on IVIG in the quarter.
I mean we all understand I think that supply -- bringing that supply back online is sort of the big variable in your business at the moment and for the next 6 to 12 months.
But coming out of the plasma meeting I was a little bit surprised in June to hear some of the growth rates for the U.S.
kind of maybe in the low double digits and the response I got from investors was the same.
It's just very very strong up a little bit from last year.
Your thoughts on that strength and maybe what could be driving that or the sustainability of that strength in the U.S.
would be very very helpful.
So what we see is increased diagnosis rate and treatment rates.
So that's one dimension that's driving the 10% growth in the U.S.
Plus when you segment by formulation you'll see that the majority of the growth is coming from the subcu segment subcu segment growing more than 30% in the United States.
So -- and that goes -- is aligned with what we see in the U.S.
and internationally where some of our business is moving towards home care.
So you see home care increasing.
So that means that you see subcu increasing.
And I would say overall this is a great dynamic that we have in order to make sure that the HyQ launch is going to be successful.
We believe that HyQ has a great opportunity here within the subcu segment $500 million overall.
So overall yes market is healthy.
Diagnosis rate is increasing and it is especially the subcu that is growing.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk a little bit about your relaunch strategy or your sort of go-to-market plans as you start to have greater capacity.
And clearly Baxter has been growing somewhat below the market given those capacity constraints and per Matt's comments and market obviously remains pretty strong.
But maybe you could just sort of help us think about what the phase-in is going to look like for you guys.
Is this going to be -- are there customers waiting in the wings for Baxter products? Is there a pricing dynamic? Is there a contract? Maybe just help us understand how you come back to market.
Let me just make a comment and then Ludwig and Bob can pick up on this.
As everybody knows we've been constrained.
And as Ludwig commented earlier our #1 priority is getting our inventories back up and our customer service levels up so that we can assure continuity of supply to our existing customers.
And as we become increasingly encouraged at the prospects of HyQ approval we also want to be in a position clearly to have inventory to support that launch over time.
So those are really kind of the front-burner priorities and will continue to be as we get old LA back into commission we start to approach some of the additional volume associated with the Sanquin collaboration as we move into 2014.
So I don't know Ludwig if you want to add to that but those are really the dynamics there.
Yes yes.
So I would say that the 2 major dynamics is -- are that we're moving our business more from an IV to subcu hopefully to HyQ and this is now happening in Europe as well as we are getting ready for potential launch in U.S.
for HyQ for 2014.
So that's number one.
And then number two is the change in channel mix where the hospital and the acute setting was I would say our dominant channel a couple of years ago and that is moving now towards an SPP channel being our dominant channel moving towards the subcu.
So these are the 2 major dynamics that we have.
But overall as an organization we're now getting ready for a successful launch with HyQ.
Does that answer your question David? Research Division</strong> That does.
And maybe if I can just follow up on specifically what I was also wondering.
If you look at the last scenario where one of your competitors ramped up capacity and entered the U.S.
market with a new product they were fairly aggressive on pricing.
Has something changed in the market right now you think as you ramp up that capacity that's going to keep pricing a lot more favorable than it has been in the past when companies have been expanding capacity? Yes what we're...
Yes what I would say there Dave 2 things.
One this is going to be a gradual ramp-up.
It's not like we've got a huge bolus that we built up there that we're going to be looking to place in the market.
As we mentioned we're going to be very targeted and thoughtful about how we focus on the chronic channel with building customer loyalty and the ability to differentiate with HyQ over time.
And as we've talked about numerous times we think HyQ is a significant innovation here and that we're going to be looking for a price premium in the marketplace.
So that's really our orientation and we're certainly not looking to rush back in.
And price is certainly not a lever we're looking to use.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's extremely helpful.
And then maybe just one more.
Bob Hombach in your prepared remarks you referenced BRIC countries growing over 20%.
Clearly there's been some sort of noise in the macro around emerging markets.
And as we've seen in other parts of health care whether it's the U.S.
or Europe as the macro weakened you tend to see -- health care seems to participate in that to some extent but it looks like emerging markets remain a very strong driver.
If you could maybe provide any further color on those businesses and just remind us how big that is as a percentage of Baxter right now.
Yes.
I mean we've talked about emerging markets being a little bit more than 20% of our overall sales.
And so I mentioned specifically the BRIC countries driving 20% growth.
Clearly there are challenges in the macro environment in many of those countries but I think it really speaks to the medically necessary nature of the products that we're in the Renal the hemophilia and so on where these are therapies that governments are looking to expand access to in fact.
And so whether it's the very beginnings of the Brazil partnership that we're starting to benefit from the growth in Renal in China and so on I think we're well positioned in this environment to partner and drive strong growth because of the medically necessary nature of our products.
So we continue to be excited about the opportunities that we see in front of us across the board.
Bruce Nudell of Credit Suisse is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> I guess the thing that seems to me going on with the stock is that people are kind of a little worried about the upcoming BIB [ph] launch and I guess for -- and there were some very positive things in their data set like 30% of people did quite well with 5-day dosing and you got pretty decent results for even every 7-day dosing.
So just stepping back and looking at that threat how do you guys view the likely encroachment on your current prophylactic base? When do you think standard recombinants in developed markets are likely to go x growth? And then you of course have your own program.
How would you gauge the technical risk associated with that program? I know you're working off a very well known molecule.
PEGylation is the new wrinkle.
And just like how would you couch the technical riskiness of that program which may be very important over the long run? Ludwig do you want to...
Yes.
There are lots of questions here.
So let me take a step back and maybe talk about the LRP for hemophilia.
So we presented last year that we will continue to grow our hemophilia franchise 3% to 4% in the next years to come and we believe that we can do this.
And this is going to be driven by different aspects.
We believe that ADVATE still has some runway as far as growth is concerned and the reason for that is it's a healthy market which continues to grow mid-single digits.
We continue to see conversion through our ADVATE prophy indication.
We see emerging countries becoming more important.
As you know we had our first shipment to Brazil which is part of our 10-year supply agreement with Brazil.
We also started to treat our first ADVATE patient in China.
We have key -- key tenders are opening up in the next couple of months.
So overall we believe that there's still a tailwind with ADVATE.
So that's the first dimension.
You know that overall we are striving for a bleed-free world so ADVATE is still the gold standard 10 years ahead of anybody else coming into this market.
So that's dimension number one.
The second dimension that will continue to derive the hemophilia franchise is our portfolio.
And you mentioned 855 is part of it.
So when I think about the other opportunities that we have we have RIXUBIS that is launching as we speak.
In addition to that we're looking at an OBI-1 submission later this year which we'll hopefully launch sometime next year.
Bob talked about the FEIBA prophy indication which will come at the end of this year.
So our pipeline is pretty healthy and will also help us to continue to grow this franchise.
Now specifically to your technical question on 855 we have started to treat the first patients in our Phase III study and the comments that we get so far are very positive encouraging comments.
The technology itself PEGylation is an older technology.
We know that there are more than 10 products on the market that have a similar type of technology with PEG doses significantly higher than we have.
So overall we feel comfortable with what we've seen so far.
We feel comfortable with our pipeline.
We feel comfortable with the growth expectation for ADVATE and we do feel comfortable with the progress that we're making on 855.
Ludwig comment if you would though as well as it relates to the near-term competitive launch of longer acting our position.
Market research as it relates specifically to efficacy vis-à-vis convenience on the hierarchy of priorities because I think that's a really important aspect okay of the question that Bruce asked.
Yes.
So it goes back to what I mentioned before that we're striving for a bleed-free world one patient at a time.
And that's the feedback that we get from physicians as well as patients that efficacy is the most important thing.
And the definition of efficacy is controlling the bleed or preventing the bleeds 0 bleeds 0 ABRs.
So that is the feedback we're getting from market research.
The second piece that is important is the tolerability piece.
It's the potential inhibitor formation.
And what's third on the list is the ease of use.
So in everything we do in all of our programs we're not going to sacrifice our aspiration of going for a bleed-free world for convenience and ease of use.
So that's the feedback that we're getting from physicians as well as from our patients.
Bob Hopkins of Bank of America is on the line with a question.
Research Division</strong> So just a couple of quick clarifications on guidance and then something on the pipeline.
So I think originally when you guys provided guidance the guidance for the underlying business excluding Gambro you were at $4.70 to $4.85.
And it sounds like that's obviously moved around a little bit because of some of the emerging market FX issues.
So I was wondering if you could just kind of clarify where are you for the year now in that kind of underlying Baxter-alone guidance for the full year and what are some of the moving parts? Yes.
Actually we really didn't specifically call that out.
And so I would say generally x Gambro given some of the strength we've seen in the first half the FX issues I mentioned in the back half we're basically where we were certainly well within the range that we originally laid out.
So there really hasn't been any significant changes on underlying assumptions about the base Baxter business.
We still maintain the approximately 4% constant currency sales expectation for the full year and margin et cetera I think is very much in line with our original expectations.
Yes Bob.
As Bob Hombach mentioned earlier the dilution of reduction we're seeing related to the timing of Gambro is being offset by downside-related FX.
But in the base business operationally there's no change to Baxter.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So that FX comment was related to Gambro specifically? Well no no.
well I mean we're differentiating between an emerging market FX issue versus the underlying operational performance of the company.
Correct.
So the FX issue in emerging market is related solely to Baxter.
Research Division</strong> Got it all right.
So the underlying earnings profile nothing's changed.
And then just to clarify in Q3 you do have one extra selling day? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the pipeline real quickly for me.
Can you just give us a sense on the recombinant Factor IX? Just kind of set expectations for how that ramp goes.
I mean how long does it take that product to get to $100 million? And on the HyQ side for 2014 is the -- in your mind is that most likely a second half scenario if things go well.
Or is there potential that it could be a first half scenario? So let me start with RIXUBIS.
So we're very happy with the approval.
So as far as the market is concerned I think the market is $1 billion plus.
We are training the sales force.
We're getting ready for the launch.
There's a major meeting that we're getting ready for which is at the beginning of October.
As far as the other geographies is concerned we plan to submit Europe before year end as well as Japan.
As far as dollar ramp-up is concerned I don't think we gave the guidance there.
We have to clarify that.
But I would say certainly over the LRP time frame that that would be the time frame that we'd be looking to get it towards that kind of a profile.
Yes.
And when I think about what this could bring to the patient first of all this is -- I do believe it's a great treatment option for hemophilia B patients.
It's the second product to the market after I think 15 years of almost silence in that space.
We have 43% of patients without any bleeds.
So again going back to what we said before striving for a bleed-free world getting the prophy indication will differentiate us from current competition.
And for the long term I do believe there is space there is medical need for a short-acting product for instance for patients who are active and patients who need their peaks more than the troughs.
So we do believe that this segment will continue to be a healthy segment.
Research Division</strong> And then on HyQ? On HyQ? The HyQ time lines.
So for Europe you know that we're launching now.
So we're looking at treating our first patient this month.
And Germany will be the first country to go.
We have other Nordic countries Scandinavia Netherlands U.K.
Germany and some other countries that we're launching in the next couple of months.
As far as U.S.
is concerned I would say overall we are a little bit more confident.
As you know we have been in constant dialogue with the FDA over the last couple of months.
We know what we're doing is aligned with their requests.
We will be submitting the data year end.
And as far as timing is concerned for the U.S.
keep my fingers crossed we could be looking at mid-2014 second half 2014 potential approval.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly really quickly on gross margin.
Bob can you give us a sense as to how hedging impacted the gross margin in the quarter? I mean you mentioned that it's directionally a benefit but I was wondering if you could just quantify that.
Yes.
And I think the main impact here is really the yen.
As you know we hedge major currencies but not emerging market currencies.
And given how much the yen moved it definitely affected the top line.
But we had put hedges in place back in the middle of last year in the low 80s and the yen's at 100 right now.
So that really was the main driver there.
But again that just offset some of the issues that we've seen.
So it wasn't a huge impact.
Sean we have time for 2 more questions.
Actually we have Glenn Novarro.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
So I have a question on the third quarter revenue guidance.
The constant currency growth is -- you're calling for 6%.
So that's better than what we just saw here in the second quarter at 4%.
There is the extra selling day.
You're launching GAMMAGARD.
But is there more to the acceleration than just the extra day in GAMMAGARD? That's my first question.
We did talk about timing of some shipments in emerging markets this year.
It just happened to fall more in the third quarter than the second and the fourth last year.
And so I think even on the call back in April we indicated that we thought third quarter would be a stronger quarter than the other 3 this year and that's definitely playing out for the timing of the shipments.
But also I'd say more modestly the billing day thing I think is relevant for our Med Products business primarily in the U.S.
and other developed markets but a little less relevant for the BioScience business.
So it's not a direct impact across the board.
LLC Research Division</strong> And can you remind me those shipments? Are those BioScience? What segments of the business is it? Yes it tends to be more BioScience because the tenders tend to be more lumpy in plasma protein some of the hemophilia and so on.
And in terms of others shipments in emerging markets again we'll see a little bit of a ramp here as we go throughout the year on the collaboration in Brazil with Hemobras and recombinant Factor VIII.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up.
Just on the Renal business about a month or so CMS announced cutting reimbursement to centers by about 10%.
And that's mainly going to impact HD -- or the HD environment.
And I believe for you HD is still very small.
So I'm wondering if you can put that into context for your HD business.
And I'm wondering does this benefit in any way maybe penetration of PD? Yes.
Bob Parkinson here Glenn.
Yes there may be a modest negative impact on the HD business in the U.S.
the Gambro products after we close the Gambro deal.
But there's no doubt it will serve as a catalyst to home treatment PD and so on which is more profitable.
And so we believe that will work more meaningfully in our favor with our PD business.
So net-net if it goes through which is still speculative based on the current proposal but if it goes through it certainly isn't a negative for us.
Let me just leave it at that.
It may be a slight positive.
And Glenn recall that the combined Baxter and Gambro business the sales in the U.S.
is less than 20% of the total and the majority of the sales are PD.
And on the Gambro side they are dialyzers and CRRT and very little on HD machines.
That's a good point.
Our final question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Bob I was wondering if you could just remind us on the expectations for Gambro in 2014.
And then also I'm assuming that some of the negative impacts from emerging market currencies are basically also going to continue into 2014 given where rates are today.
And I just wanted to clarify too going back to comments on the LRP you're still kind of expecting I would assume all of these things including Gambro to still push to the lower end of that range for earnings growth.
Yes yes well yes.
The answer to the last part is yes because of the timing of new product launches in '15 meaningful product launches in '15 and beyond and the competition of recombinant Factor VIII and generic competition coming in in '14 the same thing applies with or without Gambro.
So in terms of 2014 expectations for Gambro we previously have talked about including the impact of amortization neutral to $0.05 accretive; excluding the $0.20 amortization assumption $0.20 to $0.25 accretive.
Now given that the timing had flipped here a little bit we'll certainly need to revisit that as we close out the transaction here and look at timing of realization synergies and so on.
That's more of an issue frankly in '13 than it's going to be in '14.
So I don't expect a significant change in '14.
And clearly the financing benefit we're getting as a result of the bond issuance we did will flow through as well.
So again I'm not expecting any significant change to our 2014 expectations around Gambro but I do want to work through some of the timing impacts here.
And as it relates to emerging markets we started seeing this FX move really in mid-second quarter.
So you're looking at 7 or 8 months already in the base here for '13 if rates stay exactly where they're at.
So we'll have a bit of a headwind on emerging market FX in the first half of next year if things stay where they're at.
But it's not a full year impact.
And I don't think at this point it would be a huge headwind.
But rates are volatile and we'll have to see how things progress throughout the course of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So with Gambro in 2014 on an including amortization basis that would still kind of thinking about the 7% or 9% range push you closer to the lower end? Yes.
Well I think we updated our guidance for Gambro to be 8% to 10% EPS growth over time.
The 7% to 9% was pre-Gambro.
So yes it's still at the lower end of that expectation.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Q3 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer; and Ludwig Hantson President BioScience.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thanks for calling in.
As you all saw on the press release that was issued earlier this morning Baxter reported solid financial results for the third quarter which met expectations.
Adjusted earnings increased 4% to $1.19 per diluted share and worldwide sales excluding currency increased 9%.
Excluding Gambro and foreign currency Baxter's sales advanced 6%.
We've also updated our financial guidance for the full year which now includes sales growth of approximately 7% on a constant currency basis and adjusted earnings of $4.65 to $4.67 per diluted share.
As a reminder guidance reflects the impact of the Gambro acquisition.
While we continue to meet our financial objectives Baxter's global presence and diversified health-care model together with the advancement we've made to our business portfolio and new product pipeline we're focused on driving improved access to care across key franchises in both developed and emerging markets better outcomes for patients and enhanced value for our shareholders.
During the quarter we announced a number of business development initiatives and achieved an array of new product pipeline milestones.
Some recent highlights include finalizing the acquisition of Gambro AB a privately held global medical technology company and leader in dialysis products which further enhances Baxter's global renal leadership and provides a comprehensive product and therapies portfolio to meet the needs of patients in the large and growing dialysis market.
The acquisition provides a number of long-term growth opportunities for Baxter around the world as well as significant cost synergies.
Second the company executed an exclusive distribution and license agreement with JW Holdings for parenteral nutrition products containing a novel formulation of Omega 3 lipids.
The agreement remains in effect for 10 years following the first product launch and Baxter has specified rights to certain additional nutritional products that JW Holdings may develop or produce in the future.
And third we announced an exclusive collaboration with Coherus Biosciences to develop and commercialize a biosimilar to etanercept in Europe Canada Brazil and other markets.
Biosimilars as you know are intended to be used in place of existing branded biologics to treat a range of chronic and often life-threatening diseases and have the potential to reduce costs and expand patient access.
This collaboration builds on Baxter's ongoing relationship with Momenta expands Baxter's evolving biosimilar platform focused in the areas of immunology and oncology and may support an accelerated entry for Baxter into this market within the time frame of our long-range plan.
From a pipeline perspective we launched HyQvia in Germany as a replacement therapy for adults with primary and secondary immunodeficiencies.
HyQvia offers patients the ability to administer their treatment in a single subcutaneous site every 3 to 4 weeks and combines key benefits of intravenous and subcutaneous administration into one product.
Additional EU market launches are scheduled for the coming months.
In the U.S.
our regulatory activities remain on track and we expect to complete preclinical testing and file the amendment to our BLA before the end of the year.
We've launched RIXUBIS in the U.S.
which is the only approved recombinant Factor IX treatment for routine prophylaxis and control of bleeding episodes in adults with hemophilia B.
RIXUBIS is also the first new therapy approved in hemophilia B in more than 15 years.
In the global market that's more than $1 billion of revenue annually.
In the fourth quarter Baxter intends to file RIXUBIS for approval in Europe and Japan and for pediatric indications in the United States.
Also during the quarter we continued to expand our parenteral nutrition portfolio with the launch of CLINOMEL in China and OLIMEL in Brazil and also received FDA approval for CLINOLIPID an olive oil-based lipid emulsion used in parenteral nutrition indicated for adults.
And finally we received EMA approval to include PK-guided dosing information in ADVATE's EU label.
This information is based on a Phase IV prophylaxis clinical study and offers some patients the option of a dosing schedule of every 3 days.
In the study PK-guided and standard prophylactic dosing regimens were comparably effective in reducing annual bleeding rates.
This advancement offers clinicians and patients information that enables them to personalize their treatment regimens with the goal of fewer infusions per year while effectively reducing bleeds.
As you know promotion of this label along with ADVATE's strong efficacy and safety profile has contributed to share gains and accelerated sales growth of our hemophilia franchise over the last 2 years.
And given the recent focus on our hemophilia franchise of course we're happy to provide further perspectives on this topic during the Q&amp;A this morning.
So in closing while the global macroeconomic environment continues to be quite demanding we remain focused on operational performance achieving R&amp;D milestones and executing on a number of initiatives to enhance our growth profile.
And while we're certainly not without challenges Baxter's portfolio remains strong and we'll continue to benefit from our focus on lifesaving therapies in the 4 growth vectors that we've discussed that support our strategic objectives and enable us to fulfill our mission.
We remain confident in our business model our ability to innovate and the prospects for growth in the future of our company.
So with that I'd now like to ask Bob to review the financial results for the third quarter and also guidance for the remainder of 2013.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the third quarter excluding special items increased 4% to $1.19 per diluted share which was in line with our guidance.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP results include after-tax special items of $111 million or $0.20 per diluted share for costs associated with the acquisition of Gambro increased litigation reserves and payments associated with previously announced collaborations.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to our financial outlook for the rest of 2013.
Starting with sales worldwide sales of approximately $3.8 billion advanced 9% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Given the timing of the close of the Gambro transaction later in the third quarter Gambro revenues for the quarter were $100 million.
So excluding Gambro Baxter's sales rose 6% on both a reported and constant currency basis in line with our guidance.
Organic growth in the base Baxter business improved sequentially by approximately 200 basis points driven by accelerated growth in emerging markets as we benefited from certain government collaborations as well as the timing of tenders high single-digit growth of hemophilia and U.S.
immunoglobulin therapies and strong performance of certain injectable therapies specifically cyclophosphamide a generic oncology drug.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales exceeded $1.6 billion and advanced 6% in the third quarter both on a reported and constant currency basis.
Within the product categories hemophilia sales of $851 million increased 9% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
This strong performance was the result of solid global demand for ADVATE given our label expansion in the U.S.
and Europe and for FEIBA an inhibitor therapy.
This was augmented by a benefit from the timing of certain tenders as well as shipments to Brazil as part of our ongoing partnership with Hemobras to enhance access to recombinant Factor VIII therapy in the world's third largest hemophilia market.
As you may recall last year we signed a 10-year agreement with Brazil to be the exclusive provider of recombinant Factor VIII therapy as we work together on a technology transfer to support development of local manufacturing capabilities.
We expect peak annual sales related to this partnership to approach $200 million by 2017.
In BioTherapeutics sales of $532 million increased 3% on a reported basis and 2% on a constant currency basis.
Growth in the U.S.
for immunoglobulin therapies improved sequentially by approximately $35 million with growth in the quarter in high single digits driven by improved product availability and accelerated demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID.
This was partially offset by lower sales in international markets as a result of our decisions to exit certain markets due to previous supply constraints.
Sales in BioSurgery of $173 million increased 5% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
This performance was driven by Synovis and solid growth in international markets including sales for surgical sealants like TISSEEL and FLOSEAL.
Finally vaccines' revenues totaled $64 million in the quarter and increased 8%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 5% driven primarily by modest milestone payments related to our ongoing collaborations on the development of influenza vaccines and strong performance of our FSME vaccine.
In Medical Products global sales in the third quarter exceeded $2.1 billion and increased 10%.
Excluding foreign currency sales increased 11%.
Excluding Gambro revenues Medical Products sales grew 5% or 6% on a constant currency basis.
Within the product categories Renal sales totaled $746 million and increased 19%.
On a constant currency basis sales advanced 21%.
Excluding Gambro Renal sales increased 3% or 5% on a constant currency basis driven by strong PD patient gains in the U.S.
and emerging markets.
Sales in the Fluid Systems category of $792 million increased 13% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Performance continued to be driven by solid demand for IV solutions and price improvements for the injectable oncology drug cyclophosphamide which collectively more than offset lower sales of infusion pumps.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals which includes our inhaled anesthetics and nutritional therapies posted sales of $372 million reflecting an increase of 1% on a reported and constant currency basis.
Strong global anesthesia growth of 8% offset lower sales in nutritional therapies resulting from supplier shortages of distributed vitamins and lipids.
Finally sales in BioPharma Solutions which is our pharma partnering business totaled $244 million and declined 5% on a reported basis or 4% on a constant currency basis.
This performance can be attributed to the timing of shipments and our focus on building demand as we've alleviated supply constraints experienced earlier this year.
We expect this business to return to growth in the fourth quarter.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L gross margin in the quarter of 52.0% was lower than the prior year period by 10 basis points and reflects the impact of Gambro.
Excluding Gambro Baxter's gross margin expanded by 30 basis points versus the prior year gross margin of 52.1% and also improved sequentially by 10 basis points.
The gross margin improvement in Baxter's base business was a result of mix and price improvements which offset a number of headwinds including foreign currency incremental pension expense medical device tax and government austerity measures.
SG&amp;A totaled $827 million and increased 11% with Gambro contributing 4 points of growth.
Excluding Gambro SG&amp;A increased 7% driven primarily by incremental pension expense and investments we are making in promotional and marketing initiatives new product launches and within international markets to enhance our global presence.
In total these items more than offset the benefits related to tight expense management of discretionary spending and operational efficiencies derived from our process reengineering efforts.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $265 million increased 10% versus the prior year and includes 3 points of growth related to Gambro.
Excluding Gambro growth continues to be driven by the investments we are making to advance a number of our programs in our pipeline including those in our leading hemophilia franchise our Home HD therapy and as well as earlier-stage programs and key collaborations.
The operating margin in the quarter of 23.0% is 80 basis points lower than last year's operating margin of 23.8%.
However excluding Gambro Baxter's operating margin was modestly higher than Q3 last year.
Interest expense was $45 million compared to $25 million last year due to new debt issuances within the last year to fund both the Covington plasma manufacturing site and the Gambro acquisition.
The tax rate was 21.5% for the quarter generally in line with our full year expectation.
And as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.19 increased 4%.
Turning to cash flow.
For the quarter cash flow from operations of $966 million improved by more than $200 million versus Q3 last year.
On a year-to-date basis cash flow from operations exceeded $2.1 billion and is lower than the prior year by $46 million largely due to the timing of U.S.
tax payments a large receivable collection in Spain last year and an outflow related to inventory.
DSO ended the quarter at 59.4 days and was higher than the prior year period by 2.4 days.
Excluding Gambro Baxter's DSO was 55.1 days and was lower than the prior year by almost 2 days.
Inventory turns of 2.1 are lower than the 2.3 turns in the prior year period.
As you know we have increased inventory levels to support growing demand particularly in plasma proteins as we remain on track to benefit from enhanced capacity in the second half of this year.
Lastly on a year-to-date basis we repurchased approximately 12 million shares for $863 million or on a net basis 4 million shares for $428 million in line with our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude by comments this morning by confirming our financial outlook for the full year 2013.
As you saw on the press release we confirmed guidance within our previously stated range and now expect earnings of $4.65 to $4.67 per diluted share.
This includes the impact of the Gambro acquisition.
By line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we now expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 7% and this includes a contribution from Gambro revenues of approximately $500 million.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales growth of approximately 6%.
Excluding Gambro we continue to expect the Baxter sales -- Baxter base sales to grow approximately 4% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year we expect gross margin for the company to be approximately 51.0%.
In terms of expenses we expect SG&amp;A to increase in high single digits and R&amp;D to grow in mid-single digits.
Both line items reflect leverage in the Baxter base expense along with the addition of Gambro.
We expect interest expense to total approximately $140 million and other income to total approximately $25 million for the full year.
We continue to expect a tax rate of approximately 22% and we expect a full year average share count of approximately 550 million shares which assumes approximately 400 million in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective our plan remains to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $3.3 billion which excludes any cash costs associated with the Gambro transaction.
We continue to expect capital expenditures totaling approximately $1.7 billion which includes Gambro and the investments we are making to enhance our plasma manufacturing footprint in Covington Georgia.
Let me move to sales and expand our assumptions for the 2 businesses in the major product categories.
Beginning with Medical Products on a constant currency basis including the contribution of Gambro we expect sales growth of approximately 10%.
Excluding Gambro we expect sales for Medical Products to grow 3% to 4%.
Specifically we expect Baxter's Renal sales to grow in low single digits which will be augmented by the contribution from Gambro revenues totaling approximately $500 million.
We continue to expect Fluid Systems sales which includes IV solutions infusion pumps and access sets to grow in mid-single digits.
We expect Specialty Pharmaceutical sales which includes our nutritional therapies and inhaled anesthetics to grow in low single digits.
And we expect our BioPharma Solutions sales to be flat to slightly down for the year.
For BioScience we continue to project sales growth excluding foreign currency in the 4% to 5% range.
Our outlook includes mid-single-digit growth in our hemophilia franchise which includes recombinant and plasma-derived Factor VIII and Factor IX therapies and FEIBA an inhibitor treatment.
Growth will continue to be fueled by underlying demand for ADVATE where we continue to realize benefits associated with the new expanded label including competitive gains and conversion to prophylaxis treatment.
We now expect low-single-digit growth in BioTherapeutics which includes IG therapies albumin and Alpha-1 treatments.
While our enhanced capacity will support accelerated volume growth in the U.S.
we have lowered our guidance to reflect an expected decline in sales of low single digits in the fourth quarter which is due entirely to the timing of albumin shipments in China.
In BioSurgery we expect mid- to high-single-digit growth.
And finally we now expect our vaccine franchise to grow more than 15%.
As mentioned in our press release for the fourth quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.24 to $1.26.
Including revenues associated with the Gambro acquisition of approximately $400 million we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 14% to 15% or approximately 12% to 13% including the impact of foreign currency.
Excluding Gambro we expect the base Baxter sales at constant currency rates to grow approximately 3% to 4%.
Thanks.
And now let me open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from the line of David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with cyclophosphamide which you called out in your prepared remarks as driving some strength in the quarter.
That's also a product that you've called out as potentially facing generic competition on a go-forward basis.
So maybe you could just talk to us a little bit about your thinking around the evolution of that product and maybe if you could throw Suprane into the mix there as that's also another product I think that has the potential to face new competition as well.
Okay David this is Bob Parkinson.
So on cyclophosphamide just to maybe frame this for everybody this is a product that has grown significantly.
It's approaching an annualized sales rate of about $400 million by the end of this year and as you might expect a very high contribution margin.
So the issue obviously is the prospects of generic competition and candidly as we sit here today it's a question of if we get competition if so when and if so how many.
And those are questions that we don't have specific answers to at this stage.
I think it's reasonable to expect that there will be competition to this product in all likelihood in early 2014.
So in terms of -- and I don't want to get into too much detail in terms of potential impact for next year like I say it's a function of if and if so when and how many competitors.
And if there's multiple competitors as you all know it's a very different scenario than if there's one so we just have to see how that goes.
But to kind of frame this maybe for everyone and I know various analysts have taken a stab at quantifying this we would estimate that if we have let's say 2 competitors in the market by midyear 2014 the bottom line impact could be anywhere from $150 million to $200 million.
So potentially it's a very -- that's a very big hit.
But again it's a function of those questions that I raised in terms of if how many and timing.
So on the Suprane one that's a -- it's a little different issue and I think even more speculative it's likely there'll be generic competition in Suprane sometime in 2014.
Not likely that there'll be multiple generic competitors so it's a different scenario in that regard.
It's also kind of a longer-term thing I think in terms of competitive progress in the accounts because of the issue with the vaporizers and the fact as you know we still have the full spectrum of inhalation agents that in many markets are on contract with hospitals where we own the vaporizers that are installed and so on.
And so it's a very different set of dynamics.
So the impact of generic Suprane next year obviously very very modest compared to the numbers that I threw out on cyclophosphamide but not insignificant.
I don't know that we quantified that or at this stage we even want to.
No we haven't quantified other than to say that it's $300 million in sales globally about $200 million in the U.S.
on a run rate basis.
But again I think the trajectory as you pointed out is going to be quite different...
Yes.
Given the nature of the business.
This is Mary Kay but I'd also add Suprane also has a high contribution margin as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And maybe just switching gears to the hemophilia franchise and more specifically ADVATE as you obviously called out in the script it's getting increased focus as we approach the potential for a Biogen launch next year.
But maybe you could sort of help us understand what has been the positive impact of some of your additional indications of -- I know you've had the adult prophylaxis in the U.S.
for a little over a year now.
Obviously you got an additional indication in Europe.
Maybe just talk to us about -- remind us your view on competitive positioning and any steps that you're proactively taking to help build the moat around the FA franchise.
Okay David I'm going to turn it over -- Ludwig Hantson as Mary Kay mentioned at the outset is with us and he's obviously closer to this.
So Ludwig I guess 2 pieces which is impact in the market of our expanded label in the product and clearly we continue to have good momentum with the brand.
And then secondarily as we anticipate generic competition next year a number that mentions supply [ph].
So I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks for the question.
So the launch of the prophy indication is going well.
It's still ongoing.
So since the beginning of 2012 we switched the 400 patients to ADVATE prophy and we've been doing this in different waves.
The first wave was the most important one focusing on efficacy.
We're striving for a bleed-free world.
We do believe that that's key in the treatment of hemophilia.
The second wave which we started like 8 months later was focusing on the 3-day PK dosing method and the launch of the 4 000 vial.
And now we're working on the third wave which should reinforce the second wave.
The plan is to submit an ADVATE PK device before the year ends and the device should enable the physician to personalize the dosing towards the factor -- the target factor level on the basis of 2 blood samples.
So this should help us to further reinforce the PK dosing piece.
With respect to what we're doing so -- and let me bring the discussion up maybe 1 level.
So last year during the investors conference we talked about guidance of 3% to 4% sales CAGR for the next 5 years.
That has not changed.
So we believe in ADVATE we believe in our team and we believe that achieving a bleed-free world is key.
And with respect to what we've done the U.S.
team is getting ready for the challenge.
This team has turned a declining market share into a share growth and has put the bleed-free world concept on the map.
So I feel pretty confident about our LRP and our guidance that we gave for the next 5 years for the franchise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I'll just sneak in one more in here while you reference the LRP.
One of the things you guys have talked about is an 8% to 10% earnings CAGR over the long-range plan period lower at the front end and higher at the back end.
Is that still a dynamic with which you're comfortable? I don't want to get into the specific numbers David at this point.
And obviously we don't redo our LRP every quarter or every 6 months.
We do it annually.
I would give maybe just some comments so to help maybe frame our outlook in response to your question.
Obviously franchises like hemophilia and renal particularly in view of the recent Gambro acquisition we do continue to focus on the 5-year outlook on kind of an ongoing basis.
And just to reiterate Ludwig's point on the hemophilia franchise 1 year on from our investor conference last year our long-term outlook for our hemophilia franchise broadly defined is very comparable to what we shared with you last year both in terms of size and rate of growth as Ludwig commented.
I mean obviously the -- there's downward pressure as a result of competition which we anticipated in our rollout last year with -- which we shared with you.
There'll continue to be pricing pressure on very expensive therapies.
But on the other hand this still is a largely underdeveloped market globally.
We have an emerging pipeline that we're very excited about.
The public-private partnership with Hemobras in Brazil we're hopeful is not the last one of that nature that we do.
So we think the positives are greater than the negatives which is why we continue to be positive and optimistic about the long-term growth of this franchise.
As it relates to the Renal franchise likewise there.
I mean this is something we'll discuss with you quarterly in terms of Gambro now that we've closed the deal and we're integrating it both in terms of revenue growth and performance synergies.
But the base Renal business outside of Gambro specifically PD has exhibited the most robust growth this year than it has in years.
So our long-term outlook for the Renal business both the base business and Gambro and of course last year when we had the investor conference we had not closed the Gambro deal but the base case renal outlook for the next 5 years also continues to be very positive.
So as it relates to the rest of the businesses without getting into too much detail I think there are some things that have changed both negatively and positively from a year ago.
I think admittedly austerity measures around the world that affect pricing are more pronounced across all of our businesses than we would have anticipated a year ago.
I mean this year we've continued to experience negative impact of FX headwinds particularly in emerging developing markets.
I don't have a crystal ball.
I don't know how that's going to change over the next 5 years but that's been a significant headwind this year.
And I also think generally there's been lower growth in acute care hospital settings certainly in developed markets and we've all seen the impact of that right here at home in the U.S.
So those are some of what I'll call the downward drivers if you will from our outlook of our long-term business a year ago.
On the other hand we know pension expense which has been a drag is starting to work in our favor.
How much and for how long I think also like exchange rates is difficult to speculate on but that should be a positive versus our outlook last year.
Also I think in terms of business development there continue to be many additional opportunities.
Just activities during the last year that were consummated subsequent to our investor conference obviously most notably Gambro but in licensing deals like rigosertib which we're excited about the recent collaboration with etanercept to continue to build on our biosimilar portfolio these were all things that were contemplated in the last year's LRP.
And we fully anticipate that the momentum we've built in business development is going to continue.
So that represents a significant upside from the base case LRP that we shared with you last year.
Another driver that's a positive I think is the opportunity to favorably impact our tax rate going forward as a result of the -- how we structured the Gambro acquisition.
So that's just a few highlights both downward pressure and upward pressure but in terms of 2 core and critical franchises hemophilia and our renal franchise not any fundamental change as we look out over the next number of years from what we messaged to you last year.
I'll stop there.
It's easy to get into a lot of detail but hopefully that provides just a little bit of color David.
Our next question comes from the line of David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a few quick questions here.
Ludwig just first on HyQ filing it's in the script but it wasn't specific.
Can you just give us an update on where we stand on HyQ filing at the end of the year here? And have you received any additional questions from the agency post BioPharma's decision to end their hyaluronidase program? So we're still on schedule to submit our file before the end of the year David.
We've not gotten any additional questions from the FDA.
We expect that the regulatory path forward is well defined and we expect a potential 6-months review.
So that means that we are getting ready for a potential launch of HyQ in the U.S.
second half of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
Maybe 2 BioSciences questions maybe Ludwig one for you and then one for Bob Hombach.
First off IVIG supply.
I think there's this view that your supply is increasing but we're really not seeing it translate into the numbers here in 2013.
So maybe talk just a little about where we stand on safety stock and sort of what can we think about in terms of the supply and growth perspective in IVIG over the next several quarters.
And maybe for Bob Hombach on albumin just a clarification there.
It's been a very strong market.
Is the delay on the contracting or it sounds like that is that simply a tender that you have very good visibility on or is this in any way related to some of the pharma disruption that we've seen broadly across the universe here in the third quarter? So I'll start with the IG piece and as I mentioned before during the earnings call 2013 is a transition year for IG franchise and we are now in the position to support 6% to 8% demand growth for our IG business and this is a result of recent capacity upgrades and expansions which we will complete in the second quarter.
As you have seen in the numbers we do see strong demand growth in volume in the U.S.
so we do see an uptick there and we were going to continue to build it in the U.S.
So that's how we're looking at this.
International sales are lower than last year as a result of our strategy to exit select markets outside of the U.S.
given our prior supply constraints.
This is something that we will have to work on in the next quarters to get the international market back up to the levels similar to the U.S.
But fair to say increasingly we're more comfortable with our inventory levels.
As you know we experienced backorders periodically throughout the course of 2013.
And as we look forward to the prospect as Ludwig alluded to of a second half 2014 U.S.
HyQ launch again we're going to be thoughtful about what markets we look to reenter as we move forward here and continue with the controlled launch in Europe for HyQ as well as we have reimbursement in one country and are looking to nail down reimbursements in several other countries before the end of this year.
Talk about albumin now? And yes as it relates to albumin David so as you may be aware all biologic products exported to China have to have the license renewed every 5 years and it just so happens that 2 of Baxter's products in the albumin space have renewals coming due here in the fourth quarter.
Given the significant growth in demand in China and some other things going on the regulatory requirements and approval processes have evolved and those have resulted in the potential for delays in renewal of our licenses.
And so we're continuing to work with the Chinese authorities and we do expect to get the licenses approved or I should say renewed by the end of this year.
However likely -- highly likely that's going to impact the timing of some shipments and so we reflected that timing delay in our guidance here for the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Lawrence Keusch from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob Parkinson could you talk to us a little bit now that you've closed the Gambro acquisition what some of the milestones we should be looking for in terms of integration? And then also remind us since the deal did close a bit later than anticipated how you're thinking about the dilution for 2014 which I think you had -- you've obviously previously guided to.
All right.
Larry it's Bob Parkinson.
Let me make some comments.
And then in terms of dilution and some of the financial specifics I'll turn it over to Bob Hombach.
So in terms of milestones that we ought to be looking for I mean obviously there's -- I think there's 2 critical ones which is as we complete the integration and we move forward obviously the pace of growth -- one of the questions when we did the acquisition of course was the relative flattish nature of the business in the last couple years while it was in private equity ownership compared to our -- the prospects that we saw in terms of being able to grow the -- not only the core business but the acute business and so on.
So rate of growth is an obvious milestone that all of us should be looking at.
And the second one of course is the synergies.
A big piece of the financial justification for this was contingent upon meaningful synergies about $300 million of synergies and so that -- so those are the 2 milestones.
I think it's -- given the fact that we just completed the integration over the early stages it's premature to take a specific position on either of those this morning but those are the 2 things that I'm going to be monitoring Larry internally.
So I think you all should be too as well.
So Bob do you want to handle the other thing? Yes as it relates to dilution no change in our outlook but let me just kind of reframe how we position this and then talk a little bit about some of the variables that may be additive or further dilution here related to our outlook.
So we previously said for 2014 that including amortization expense that we would be neutral to modestly accretive in 2014.
And assuming about $0.20 of amortization if we were to back out the amortization it would be $0.20 to $0.25 accretive.
And so as we look forward here and as we approach guidance in January some of the variables we're going to be looking at that could again impact that outlook one is we closed the transaction a little later than we expected as we had hoped to -- originally in the middle of the year to close the transaction and then it ended up being a bit later due to the regulatory process.
So the timing of synergy achievement in the very near term will be a little bit challenged.
I don't think anything significant but it will be a little bit challenged.
On the plus side I think whether it's the financing costs coming in a bit lower than we expected and some of the opportunities that we may have on the tax front that we've talked about those are opportunities I think to potentially offset any leakage we might have from a timing perspective and maybe do a little bit better.
But there are a number of variables particularly on the tax front that we still need to work through now that we actually own the company and look at some of the tax attributes about -- around loss carryforwards and deductibility of interest in certain markets and so on but we do think there's opportunity there but not ready to quantify that at the moment.
And so -- but I guess the last thing I would mention because this has come up a number of times as we think about intangible amortization related both to our existing business as well as now the significant increase we're likely to see with Gambro as we've mentioned this is something we've been thinking about and I think the appropriate time to implement that would be in January when we provide guidance for 2014.
But given the significant impact that that's going to have and just to reframe that for everyone today within our core business we incur about $100 million a year in intangible amortization related to prior business development activities which equates to about $0.15 a share.
As I just mentioned we assume that Gambro could be approximately $0.20 of incremental intangible amortization.
And so at $0.30 to $0.35 of impact on an annual basis that actually has about 150-basis-point impact on our gross margin as a non-cash item.
And so I would characterize it as very likely that we will move towards excluding intangible amortization from our adjusted earnings projections but we'll -- given the time frame that it's going to take us several months here to get to a reasonably final number about what the Gambro intangible amortization is actually going to be because that is done through an independent third-party valuation that's ongoing as we speak we'll be in a better position in January I think to fully quantify it for everyone and make the final call here about making the change on reporting going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That was really helpful.
And then just the other question is Bob in the context of again concerns around the competition from Biogen in the Factor VIII market I'm just hoping you could give us a bit of an update on Brazil again.
You made some mention of it in the prepared remarks but how much -- can you quantify sort of how much you're beginning to ship there? And are there efforts that you can take to perhaps accelerate that $200 million in peak sales in 2017? And I guess are there opportunities for now that this relationship has been established other products that could also go into the Brazilian market? All right.
Well maybe all of us could comment on pieces of that.
Larry this is Bob Parkinson.
So first of all we're very pleased with how the collaboration with Hemobras in Brazil is evolving.
As you might guess any time you have arrangements like this with governments they can be a little untidy and they all take their own shape and form but we've navigated through a lot of that and continue to be very -- so the long-term outlook of $200 million continues to be a very realistic opportunity but to say it's going to be greater than that I'm not prepared to do that at this point and we'll evolve to that over time.
But just to date I think about 10% of all the patients being treated in Brazil have moved from plasma-derived Factor VIII to our recombinant product so I think that's an interesting metric or indicating the pace and we anticipate that that's going to continue to move very quickly.
I do think that -- and one of the reasons I called this out at the investor conference last year as 1 of our 4 growth vectors public-private partnerships we continue to be very enthusiastic about this.
There's no doubt that as a result of this collaboration with Hemobras in Brazil we've developed a broader -- and I think a relationship built on trust and so on with the Health Ministry and the broader government in Brazil which we believe can lead to other opportunities over time.
And certainly with the -- even with Hemobras on the hemophilia collaboration that's just on one product.
That's really on recombinant Factor VIII.
So as we continue to grow our hemophilia pipeline we certainly would anticipate that we would build on that platform.
The last thing I would say is that we continue to have discussions with other governments around the world that can represent meaningful opportunities in this kind of fashion which is why we called it out as a specific platform or vector of our growth outlook.
So I don't know I've covered a lot there.
Ludwig please go ahead yes.
Yes so I just want to add something on the market itself to put things into perspective.
So there are about 9 000 hemophilia A patients in Brazil.
The diagnosis rate is 70% and there's no prophy use so one of the objectives for us is to move from plasma to recombinant but in addition to that to move patients from on-demand to prophy.
And when you look at the IU per capita it's about 2 which is about half of Russia and U.K.
is around 8.
I don't want to commit to a number higher than the $200 million that was quoted but clearly if we do our market development right and we work with the treating physicians there's a lot of work that needs to be done.
And as we do with all of our hemophilia products we're going to strive for a bleed-free world and Brazil is a long way from a bleed-free world.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And your 200 -- lastly your $200 million is predicated on IU per capita of what? We haven't specifically addressed that Larry but again I would say that we have modest assumptions around prophylaxis which by the way is not only our objective but a stated objective of the Minister of Health in Brazil to expand prophylaxis.
So -- but we haven't quoted a specific IU per capita but it is relatively low and there is tremendous opportunity to enhance that and improve outcomes for patients.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Hopkins from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So just I wanted to come back to your -- the confidence that you guys are expressing in the long-range plan relative to hemophilia and I want to ask the question is part of your confidence in that long-range plan a view that you really won't lose as much share as the recent surveys are suggesting? You guys gave some pretty specific guidance originally in terms of anticipated share loss and I just want to make sure that I understand what you're saying here.
And so specifically are you more confident than the Street seems to be relative to share loss? Well let me make some high-level comments and then Ludwig maybe you can pick up specifically on the share loss thing.
As I said before we fully contemplated competitive launches when we stood up before you last fall so no surprises.
And despite recent surveys that have been done and so on there's actually no new facts in the marketplace that have emerged in the last 6 to 9 months either about competitive products our own or otherwise.
What there have been is perspective study that have been shared and so on.
So I'm not going to get into dueling surveys and things like that but we fully contemplate that we will lose market share to competitive entries as we shared with you last year.
But the longer-term view of this critical franchise for our company is driven by some of these higher-level dynamics that I mentioned before in terms of the underdeveloped global market.
Ludwig just took you all through the tremendous opportunity that exists in Brazil and Brazil's not unique not to mention our own emerging pipeline with our own longer-acting product the factor the RIXUBIS that just got approved and is being launched the development of our recombinant von Willebrand our Factor VII and so on.
So that's the basis of our position relative to the long-term outlook.
Now -- of this critical franchise.
Now the short-term impact of launches surveys our view and so on like I say no new facts a; b nobody knows and that doesn't mean that we haven't been busy over the last 12 months and we're going to continue to be very busy over the next approximately 6 months before the competitive launch.
And so we'll see what happens but obviously we're very familiar with this franchise we're very close to the treaters the patients.
And to do a survey you ask one question that almost assumes that you have a homogenous market.
It is a complex market with the composition of very different patient types and so to answer a question in a survey and then conclude that it applies broadly I think can be a little bit misleading.
But I'll stop there.
Ludwig if you want to add...
Sure.
The -- with respect to your first question on the confidence in the LRP we believe that the 3% to 4% sales CAGR that I mentioned and we mentioned last year is driven by 4 categories.
First of all we potentially have 4 new product launches in the next 2 years: so RIXUBIS is number one; OBI-1 hopefully by the end of next year; and then we have BAX 855; and our recombinant von Willebrand.
In addition to that we have lifecycle management opportunity of existing products.
So we have 5 of prophy hopefully by the end of this year as well as BAXJECT III device for ADVATE sometime next year.
As Bob was saying the geographical expansion with Brazil as a great example but in addition to that we've launched ADVATE in China and the first patients are being treated with ADVATE.
And we also plan to launch in Russia next year.
And we continue to see a healthy market growth of mid-single digits.
So that's the reason why we do believe that we're confident in the numbers that we gave you for the LRP.
With respect to the market share loss our market research suggests that the penetration of an extended half-life product will somewhat be slowed down by clinical -- limited clinical experience a restricted label restricted geographies brand loyalty frequency of physician visits.
And when you think about the competitive pressure that we will have from the extended half-life products it will be primarily in the U.S.
adult prophy market segment which is about 20% of our global recombinant Factor VIII business.
And in that specific segment we know that about 50% of the patients on ADVATE prophy are on a dose regimen of every 3 days or longer already.
So we do feel comfortable with the guidance that we gave you on the LRP for hemophilia and we're looking forward to a lot of opportunities with our launches.
Research Division</strong> But just to push a little bit on that I think you guys specifically said originally as it relates to ADVATE competition that you would lose about $100 million a year each year over the course of the long-range plan.
You didn't quite say it that specifically.
You said you'd lose a point of growth to both generic competition and ADVATE competition but then you said 2/3 of that would be ADVATE and pretty simple math suggests that's about $100 million a year.
So I just want to make sure that I've got my math right and that that's what you're confident in from a share perspective.
Understanding that you got other offsets in terms of new products and market expansion but specifically around the issue of what market share loss you're assuming in the LRP I just want to confirm that you're still comfortable suggesting that it's roughly at that $100 million a year per year over the next -- over the 5-year range of the long-range plan.
So Bob the -- we gave a 5-year outlook and said it would have a competitive interest and have accumulatively a 100-basis-point impact on our CAGR which if you do the math gets up to about $700 million of run rate impact by 2017.
I wouldn't conclude -- and we did say that about 2/3 of that related to Factor VIII competition but I wouldn't assume that that's ratable over that time frame because the launches happen in different markets at different times.
As Ludwig alluded to the competition will start first in the U.S.
We just got news yesterday that one of the competitors we thought was going to be in the U.S.
next year isn't going to be in the U.S.
next year.
And so there's a number of variables here that are going to affect the timing of that.
And so I think in aggregate you're in the ballpark but the ratability is going to be a factor of a whole lot of things including again when geographic approvals are achieved by competitors in different markets around the world because as you know a little bit less than half our sales overall are in the U.S.
which means a whole -- quite a bit of it is outside the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
I just wanted to make sure you weren't changing the guidance as it relates to share in the LRP.
No.
No there's no change.
No.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up to that.
So Ludwig why is it do you think that a longer-acting product will just be used in the prophy population? There seems to be a lot of interest from the hematologists in using it on demand on a belief that the patients that come in on a bleed may not have to come back for days 2 or 3? Okay so let's -- as Bob started the discussion on patient types in the U.S.
about what patient types are maybe I'd like to go a little bit deeper with respect to patient types.
It's not going to be a one size fits all so every patient is going to be different.
And at the end of the day the decision will be taken by the physician or the patients on an individual basis.
So patient segmentation is essential.
But let me give you some examples of patient types that might be reluctant to switch.
First of all patients with a 0 bleed rate.
Those patients they control their disease very well and will ask that question should I really switch? I think that will be a natural question.
The second type would be there's about 1/3 of the patients that developed an inhibitor early in their life.
Those patients were able to overcome the complexity of an inhibitor through an ITI treatment.
I'm sure that those patients will ask themselves the question of in view of what happens am I going to switch? ADVATE prophy patients and we estimate that 50% of the ADVATE prophy patients are on an every-3-day-or-longer dose regimen as I mentioned before.
And then you have active patients and those active patients -- this is not only for hemophilia A but also for hemophilia B and it applies for RIXUBIS as well.
Those patients they live on the peak.
So every time they have an activity and this could be a daily activity they infuse themselves right before the activity.
You can ask yourself the question would those patients go for a short-acting versus an extended half-life product? I think the other segment is pediatric patients.
So it comes back to the discussion that Bob started that at the end of the day it's not going to be a one size fits all and we can segment as much as we want but every patient will have its own life story and will have a reason either to switch and some of those patients will be switching we know that.
And as we said we will lose some market share but a lot of those patients will ask the question should I really switch? Our next question comes from the line of Kristen Stewart from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back on just the Medical side -- Products side with the Fluid Systems sales.
I know you gave a little bit of context in the prepared remarks but I was wondering if you could just dive in a little bit deeper just to help gauge kind of how to think about that business going forward.
And then any update you might have on the infusion pumps side with respect to the warning letter? Yes Bob? Yes I'll jump to the infusion pumps first.
No update.
We'll continue to look to file by the end of this year and hope to be back in the market in 2014 with our spectrum pump again.
This is a 510(k) update and so again hope to -- expect to be back in the market but no change in time frame there.
As it relates to the rest of Fluid Systems clearly the key driver here from a growth perspective was the cyclophosphamide.
And from a sequential standpoint second quarter to third quarter some timing and price driving that.
Other than that we continue to see strong demand for IVs particularly in the U.S.
and given some of the other issues that are prevailing in the marketplace but nothing else I think notable within the Fluid Systems segment here going forward.
Research Division</strong> How do you guys reconcile just the strong demand for IV in the U.S.
relative to more the macro comments on pressure with kind of acute hospital stays and admission trends? Well again I think the competitive environment there's some issues that one of our competitors had has provided us some opportunity there.
So I don't think it's a market comment it's more of a share comment.
Research Division</strong> And then just turning back to the antibiotic therapies business what gives you the confidence in modeling out 6% to 8% unit growth for plasma? Do you have any concerns just from a reimbursement standpoint and some of the use is more off-label albeit evidence-based? And historically I remember you guys had thrown out some estimates that you felt that the end market growth rate from a unit perspective was more about 5%.
So I guess how do you get comfortable that it really is 6% to 8% especially given all the capacity additions that you do have coming online? So a couple of things and then Ludwig if you want to jump in as well.
Our long-term view has not changed and the 6% to 8% primarily relates to immunoglobulins from a unit perspective.
And really that going back 15 years is a pretty consistent trend we've seen.
And in fact the last several years it's accelerated for some of the reasons we've previously talked about including more utilization in the neurological space where twice as much product is used on a per-patient basis as well as the growth in SubQ treatments which again use more product at least the existing ones on a per-patient basis.
Of course that's one of the benefits we think HyQ will bring to the marketplace.
But in any case demand has been robust particularly in the U.S.
And outside the U.S.
we continue to see under-penetrated and under-developed markets that have great opportunities over the long term.
So as we continue to expand indications and find additional uses for the product and have the geographic expansion opportunities in front of us that's really the main source of the 6% to 8%.
But Ludwig if you want to add anything there specific but again and I think for us we're confident we're going to be able to support as Ludwig alluded to the 6% to 8% unit volume here in the coming years given the expansions we've already done and with the prospect of a HyQ launch in the U.S.
in the back half of next year again just further adds to our confidence in the ongoing demand for this product.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just on BAX 855 just in terms of time lines has anything changed or do you still feel confident in the ability to have that product approved in the U.S.
in 2015? Go ahead Ludwig.
So yes let me take a step back so that everybody is clear.
So 855 is an extended half-life ADVATE.
So it's a molecule that's proven and it's the gold standard in hemophilia A.
So our recruit -- with your respect to your question our recruitment is on schedule and we still plan to file before the end of 2014.
So no -- and so far no inhibitors have been reported so we're still gearing up for a 2015 potential launch.
Research Division</strong> And you said file before the end of 2014? Correct.
Our final question comes from the line of Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up first off on Ludwig's -- your comments on hemophilia and the potential pushback to switching to long-acting.
Just on your comment about 50% of your ADVATE prophy patients already being on sort of a 3-day-or-longer regimen as a layperson just thinking about that wouldn't those also be the patients who would then have the best potential to get to a once-per-week regimen with the long-acting? So am I thinking about that wrong or why -- we would almost see sort of -- perhaps opposite of maybe what you're saying that these patients might be the ones who might actually more want to switch to long-acting.
Yes so the numbers that you quoted are correct so that's what I mentioned.
So I think the preference of the ADVATE prophy patients are 3 days or longer and we have seen this both in the U.S.
as well as in Europe.
It comes down to what I said before it's going to be on an individual basis.
So if those patients are well controlled if those patients have 0 bleeds then they will be people who are going to ask themselves the question am I going to switch to something that potentially since there's no registration yet could have a longer dosing regimen? So I think it's going to happen on an individual basis.
And then maybe come back to the question that was asked on what about the on-demand patients? You'll see that a lot of the on-demand patients for hemophilia B for instance 90% of those on-demand patients are mild to moderate.
And we can ask ourselves the question are those patients going to be the ones that are going to think about a longer-acting product for hemophilia A? This is about half of the patients.
So it's a -- again it's going to happen on a patient-by-patient basis.
But I think as ADVATE is proven since we have 10 years clinical experience it has shown strong prophy data.
And as we said we strive for a bleed-free world.
We believe that 0 bleeds is the way to go and that should be the focus of treatment.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on BAX 855 I mean I think that's really key to the sustainability of your recombinant factor VIII franchise moving forward.
Have you had discussions already with the FDA around whether they might have any additional requirements for approval given that this is a chronic -- this is a product with a PEGylation formulation that will be taken chronically in patients.
What's your confidence or what sort of discussions have you had with the FDA around whether or not that might require some additional regulatory requirements under a prior -- or how comfortable is the FDA with the PEGylation formulation? Yes so the -- yes we do have dialogues with the FDA on 855 as you can imagine.
With respect to the PEGylation technology this is nothing new.
This is more than 3 decades old.
So in more than 10 products with the similar technology have been approved.
And when you look at the PEG concentration in 855 it is significantly lower than some approved products products that are indicated for chronic therapy.
So we feel comfortable that the work that we're doing should satisfy the regulatory bodies.
Of course as part of our market developments we will ensure that the hemophilia community is familiar with the PEGylation technology and that's clearly a work in progress for us.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just slip one quick one in could you give us an update on how you're seeing the HyQ launch go in Germany what you're seeing on pricing there and kind of just give us early indications on the controlled launch there? A little early.
We just launched in Germany and a couple of the Northern markets so it's a little early I think to -- it's actually too early to comment on that.
I think that's -- we'll update you the next time we get together on the call we'll have a better frame of reference on that Derrick frankly.
Yes I'd say your characterization is right though.
We're being very thoughtful about how we launch this.
It is a change in treatment regimen and making sure patients and treaters are well educated and it gets off to a very good start.
We started in Germany and we expect to get reimbursement in several other countries here in the coming months.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to our Q4 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thank you all for calling in.
As you saw in the press release that was issued earlier this morning Baxter reported solid financial results for the fourth quarter and the full year.
In the quarter adjusted earnings of $1.26 per diluted share were consistent with our guidance.
On a global basis sales excluding currency advanced 17%.
And after adjusting for Gambro and currency Baxter sales advanced 6% exceeding our expectations for the quarter.
For the year adjusted earnings increased 3% to $4.67 per diluted share and sales excluding currency advanced 8%.
After adjusting for both Gambro and currency sales increased 4%.
I'm pleased that we continue to meet our financial objectives while navigating a challenging and complex macro environment and have consistently generated significant cash flow while maintaining a disciplined capital allocation strategy of returning value to shareholders through both increased dividends and share repurchases.
Before I turn the call over to Bob Hombach for additional commentary regarding the financial results and also the full year 2014 outlook I'd like to take a moment to reflect on the progress that our company has made particularly in 2013 to improve our operational and commercial execution advance the pipeline and position Baxter for future growth and success.
First Baxter continues to improve operational and commercial effectiveness and derive significant benefits by taking full advantage of existing opportunities to bring products and therapies to various markets more effectively.
This includes geographic expansion particularly in emerging markets where Baxter's 2013 annual sales exceeded $3.2 billion advancing more than 10% for the year.
We capitalized on the innovative partnership with Hemobras in Brazil with the commencement of shipments to enhance access to Baxter's recombinant factor VIII therapy for the treatment of hemophilia.
Baxter will be the exclusive provider of Brazil's recombinant factor VIII treatment over a 10-year period while we work together on a technology transfer to support development of local manufacturing capabilities.
As you may recall we expect peak annual sales related to this partnership to be material and approach $200 million by 2017.
We've already converted more than 2 000 patients to Baxter's therapy representing about 20% of treated patients.
We also remain committed to meeting patient demands by enhancing our plasma manufacturing footprint.
As you know we're investing in a new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Covington Georgia and also completed planned modifications at the older Los Angeles plasma fractionation facility.
The Los Angeles and Covington investments augmented by other improvements across the network and the Sanquin collaboration position Baxter well to meet the growing demand for immunoglobulin and other plasma-based therapies in both the short- and long-term in a flexible and also a very cost-effective manner.
During 2013 Baxter continued to transform the new product pipeline into a robust portfolio of products and therapies that improve the quality of care and address key high-potential areas of unmet medical need.
This is evidenced by our increased spending in research development to a record level; achievement of a number of clinical and regulatory milestones including the progression of several key programs into late-stage clinical trials completion of regulatory submissions and approval of an array of new indications and treatments; the announcement of several collaborations that leverage Baxter's proven expertise and extend the pipeline into new therapeutic areas including hematology oncology and immunology; and the completion of the Gambro AB acquisition which enhances Baxter's global leadership in renal therapies and provides a number of longer-term opportunities and significant cost synergies.
Momentum accelerated in the fourth quarter with several pipeline achievements including: The submission of an amended Biologics License Application or BLA to the FDA to reinitiate the review process for approval of HyQvia a subcutaneous infusion for the treatment of adult patients with primary immunodeficiency.
As you know HyQ was approved and then launched in a number of European countries in the second half of 2013.
Conclusion of the enrollment in the Phase III clinical trial of BAX 855 an investigational extended half-life recombinant factor VIII treatment for hemophilia A.
The ongoing trial is aimed at assessing the efficacy of the compound in reducing annualized bleed rates in both prophylaxis and on-demand treatment schedules and will also evaluate its safety and pharmacokinetic profile.
BAX 855 was designed based on the full-length ADVATE molecule and modified with PEGylation technology.
To date no inhibitors or safety issues have been reported in the study.
The BLA submission to the FDA for the approval of OBI-1 a recombinant porcine factor VIII for patients with acquired hemophilia A.
OBI-1 has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA and the application has been granted a priority review which is intended to expedite the review process of drug candidates with the potential to fulfill an unmet medical need.
Also the submission of an application to the FDA for a pediatric indication for RIXUBIS to treat hemophilia B.
We've also submitted a marketing authorization application for patients of all ages in Japan and to the European Medicines Agency.
RIXUBIS was approved in the United States for adults with hemophilia B in 2013.
Also the FDA approval for Baxter's FEIBA as the first and only treatment in the U.S.
for routine prophylaxis to prevent or reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes in patients with hemophilia A or B who have developed inhibitors.
The presence of an inhibitor makes response to treatment more challenging and patients with inhibitors have an increased risk of developing complications.
This approval builds on our leading prophylaxis platform that we've established with ADVATE and more recently with RIXUBIS.
As you may know in clinical trials the FEIBA prophylactic regimen showed a 72% reduction in median annual bleed rate compared to treatment with an on-demand regimen.
FEIBA is approved in more than 60 countries worldwide and is indicated for prophylaxis in more than 40 countries with annual sales that exceed $600 million.
We also received CE Marking in Europe for the VIVIA hemodialysis system designed to deliver more frequent extended-duration short-daily or nocturnal Home HD therapy.
VIVIA is designed with the potential to deliver enhanced clinical outcomes and greater patient convenience and provides a number of unique safety features wireless connectivity an integrated water system and extended-use consumables.
Baxter will introduce VIVIA in a limited number of European dialysis clinics in 2014 and expand the launch to other European countries in 2015.
And finally we entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Cell Therapeutics Inc.
to develop and commercialize pacritinib a novel investigational JAK2/FLT3 inhibitor currently in Phase III development for patients with myelofibrosis a chronic malignant bone marrow disorder.
Under the terms of the agreement Baxter gains exclusive commercialization rights for all indications outside the United States and Baxter and Cell Therapeutics will jointly commercialize pacritinib in the United States.
So as you can see we're beginning to realize value from the significant R&amp;D investment that we've made over the years.
We currently are engaged in 7 key Phase III clinical trials.
We're awaiting approval for several key new programs and launching 5 new products in 2014.
Before I turn the call over to Bob I want to provide you with an update on several additional items.
First we did recently receive an FDA warning letter primarily directed to our quality systems in Round Lake Illinois for certain medical devices.
We've been working to address the FDA's initial 43 observations including through a global quality system improvement plan which we've reviewed with the Agency and which we're in the progress of implementing.
In light of the letter's focus we do not anticipate an impact on product availability for patients.
Second while it took longer than we expected to complete the regulatory process we're pleased with the progress we're making on the integration of Gambro.
The Baxter-Gambro renal leadership team under Rob Davis comprised of experienced leaders from both Baxter and Gambro are focused on a number of opportunities to enhance growth and profitability in this core franchise.
This includes enhancing patient outcomes in chronic and acute kidney treatments driving further penetration of key products in both developed and emerging markets launching new products such as VIVIA our new Home HD therapy in Europe expanding capacity to meet growing demand for PD therapy and dialyzers and optimizing our manufacturing operations and business support functions.
We look forward to updating you on the progress with these initiatives and the integration throughout the year.
And finally we remain committed to enhancing shareholder value over the long term with a disciplined capital allocation strategy.
An important aspect of our strategy is to ensure that we position our company for sustainable and profitable growth and this includes an ongoing evaluation of our portfolio including selectively divesting assets that are no longer core to our long-term objectives and executing new business development initiatives partnerships and collaborations that leverage our core capabilities and global channel.
The recent announcement of plans to explore strategic options related to our vaccine and cell therapy programs combined with the new partnerships that we've announced are examples of the discipline that we've exhibited in this regard.
So thanks for that and now I'll ask Bob to review financial results for the quarter and also guidance for 2014.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned earnings per diluted share in the fourth quarter excluding special items were $1.26 per diluted share in line with our previously issued guidance.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP results include after-tax special items of $366 million primarily associated with cost related to the Gambro acquisition previously announced collaborations and business optimization initiatives.
The business optimization initiatives include the elimination of a number of positions as we continue to streamline operations rationalize our manufacturing footprint and optimize general and administrative functions.
It also includes costs related to the decision to explore strategic options for our vaccines and cell therapies R&amp;D programs.
Annual savings are expected to total approximately $0.17 per share when fully implemented in 2015 which includes savings of approximately $0.13 for 2014 a portion of which is expected to be reinvested in promotional and marketing activities to support ongoing new product launches on a global basis.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to our financial outlook for 2014.
Starting with sales worldwide sales of approximately $4.4 billion advanced 16%.
On a constant currency basis sales rose 17%.
Excluding Gambro revenues of $413 million Baxter's sales rose 5% and on a constant currency basis sales increased 6% which exceeded our guidance range primarily due to strong demand for ADVATE and FEIBA particularly in the U.S.
and Europe.
Sales in the base Baxter business improved sequentially driven by accelerated growth in emerging markets as we benefited from certain government collaborations as well as strong performance across the hemophilia franchise and Medical Products.
For the full year worldwide sales of $15.3 billion advanced 8% on both a reported and constant currency basis but excluding Gambro revenues which contributed $513 million in 2013 Baxter's sales increased 4% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales of approximately $1.8 billion advanced 5% in the fourth quarter.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 6%.
For the full year global BioScience sales also increased 5% to more than $6.5 billion and after adjusting for foreign currency sales rose 6% exceeding our expectation of sales growth in the 4% to 5% range.
Within the product categories hemophilia sales of $972 million increased 10% or 11% on a constant currency basis representing the strongest quarterly performance in recent years.
This is the result of capitalizing on our global leadership position and brand differentiation broadening our portfolio with new product launches like RIXUBIS for the treatment of hemophilia B and expanding access to care particularly in emerging markets.
Specifically global demand for ADVATE remains strong as we continue to benefit from our label expansion and improved prophylaxis penetration in both the U.S.
and Europe.
This was augmented by a benefit from shipments to Brazil as part of our ongoing partnership with Hemobras to enhance access to recombinant factor VIII therapy in the world's third largest hemophilia market.
We've now converted more than 20% of the total patients and generated incremental sales of approximately $70 million in 2013.
In BioTherapeutics sales of $564 million declined 1% on a reported basis and were down 2% on a constant currency basis.
Growth in the U.S.
of 7% was a result of improved product availability and growth of immunoglobulin therapies albumin and Alpha-1 treatments.
This performance was more than offset by lower sales in international markets primarily the result of lower albumin sales in China and decisions to exit certain markets due to previous supply constraints.
Sales in BioSurgery of $194 million increased 8%.
On a constant currency basis sales rose 7% driven by solid demand across the entire portfolio of surgical sealants like TISSEEL and FLOSEAL.
Finally vaccine revenues totaled $46 million in the quarter and declined 6%.
On a constant currency basis sales were comparable to last year and strong demand for our core vaccines was offset by lower milestone payments related to our ongoing collaborations on the development of influenza vaccines.
In Medical Products global sales in the fourth quarter were approximately $2.6 billion and increased 25%.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 27%.
Excluding Gambro Medical Products sales grew 5% or 7% on a constant currency basis with solid growth across all product categories.
For the full year Medical Products sales increased 9% to approximately $8.7 billion and after adjusting for foreign currency sales were in line with our expectations and advanced 10%.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled approximately $1.1 billion and including Gambro sales of more than $400 million which were in line with expectations.
Excluding Gambro renal sales increased 2% or 5% on a constant currency basis driven by strong PD growth of 6% to 7% which continues to be driven by strong patient gains in the U.S.
and emerging markets.
Sales in the fluid systems category of $819 million increased 6% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Performance continues to be driven by demand for IV solutions and injectable drugs as well as price improvements for the injectable oncology drug cyclophosphamide which collectively more than offset lower international sales.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals which includes our inhaled anesthetics and nutritional therapies posted sales of $407 million reflecting an increase of 8% on a reported and constant currency basis.
Strong global anesthesia growth offset lower sales of nutritional therapies in the U.S.
resulting from supplier shortages of distributed vitamins and lipids.
Finally sales in BioPharma Solutions which is our pharma partnering business totaled $267 million which improved -- with improved growth of 11% on a reported basis or 12% on a constant currency basis.
This performance can be attributed to the timing of orders and shipments as we've alleviated supply constraints experienced in late 2012 and earlier this year.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L gross margin in the quarter was 49.5% with the full year gross margin of 51.1% in line with our expectations and guidance.
For the quarter the gross margin benefited from products mix and price improvements particularly for cyclophosphamide.
These benefits were more than offset by the integration of the lower-margin Gambro business which negatively impacted the ratio by 150 basis points as well as other headwinds including foreign currency pension austerity measures and the realization of additional costs associated with modifications and the ramp-up of production at our Los Angeles fractionation facilities.
SG&amp;A totaled $940 million and increased 16% with the Gambro acquisition accounting for the vast majority of the growth.
Excluding Gambro SG&amp;A increased 2% given tight management of expenses which was offset by select investments in promotional and marketing initiatives new product launches and within international markets to enhance our global presence.
For the full year SG&amp;A increased 9% and excluding Gambro spending increased 4%.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $304 million increased 16% versus the prior year.
Excluding Gambro R&amp;D spending rose 3% and continues to be driven by investments we are making to advance a number of programs in our pipeline including those in our leading hemophilia franchise and programs to leverage our expertise in the therapeutic areas of hematology oncology and immunology as well as investments in renal therapies aimed at improving patient outcomes across the continuum of care.
R&amp;D for the full year approached $1.1 billion a record level for the company.
Operating margin in the quarter of 21% is lower than last year's operating margin of 23.8% as leverage in the base Baxter business was offset by the factors impacting gross margin and the addition of Gambro.
Interest expense was $41 million compared to $22 million last year due to the new debt issuances within the last year to fund both the Covington plasma manufacturing site and the Gambro acquisition.
The tax rate was 23.3% for the quarter somewhat higher than expected due to earnings mix and a minor discrete item affecting our tax reserves.
The full year tax rate was 22% in line with our guidance.
And as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.26 is flat to the prior year.
Full year 2013 adjusted earnings of $4.67 per diluted share increased 3%.
On a year-to-date basis cash flow from operations of $3.2 billion improved by almost $100 million versus the prior year.
This includes after-tax cash costs associated with the Gambro acquisition of more than $60 million.
Excluding these costs cash flow from operations was in line with our full year objective.
DSO ended the quarter at 55.9 days and excluding Gambro Baxter's DSO was 52.5 days lower than the prior year by almost a full day.
Inventory turns of 2.7 are higher than the 2.5 turns in the prior year period due to stronger sales and inventory management.
And lastly for 2013 we repurchased approximately 13 million shares for $913 million or on a net basis 4 million shares for $439 million slightly more than our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the first quarter and full year 2014.
As we previously communicated going forward we will report and provide guidance that excludes the impact of intangible amortization and other special items.
Intangible asset amortization books entirely to cost of goods sold and for the full year 2013 totaled approximately $0.19 per diluted share.
And as mentioned in our press release the estimate for 2014 is approximately $0.25 per diluted share.
For 2013 we provided a quarterly financial statement including this adjustment which was included on Page 14 of our press release issued this morning and additional historical financial statements can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website.
Moving on to the guidance.
For the full year 2014 we expect adjusted earnings of $5.05 to $5.25 per diluted share.
You may note that we are providing a larger guidance range than our historical practice as we have a number of factors and assumptions impacting this year's financial outlook.
Our 2014 guidance includes a benefit from pension of approximately $0.14 savings related to our business optimization initiatives over the last 2 years of approximately $0.18 an accretion from Gambro acquisition of $0.20 to $0.25 per share in line with our original expectations.
These tailwinds are more than offset by foreign currency and austerity measures of approximately $0.25 and cyclophosphamide composition of $0.20 to $0.30 per share.
Specifically by line item for the P&amp;L starting with sales we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 9% to 10% and this includes annual sales of more than $1.6 billion for Gambro.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales growth of approximately 8% to 9%.
Excluding Gambro we expect the base Baxter sales to grow approximately 2% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year we expect gross margin for the company to decline by approximately 150 basis points from the restated 2013 margin of 52%.
By quarter we expect the gross margin to be fairly stable due to the timing of certain headwinds and tailwinds and our assumptions related to new competitive entrants.
In terms of expenses we expect SG&amp;A to increase in mid-single digits and R&amp;D to grow in low single digits.
Both line items reflect leverage in the Baxter expense base and the addition of Gambro.
We expect interest expense to total approximately $160 million and other income to total an expense of approximately $15 million for the full year.
We expect the tax rate to improve to approximately 21.5% which includes a benefit related to the structure of the Gambro transaction and we expect full year average share count of approximately 547 million shares which assumes approximately $300 million in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we expect to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $3.5 billion.
We expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.8 billion which includes Gambro and the investments we are making to enhance our plasma manufacturing footprint in Covington Georgia.
I'd note that 2014 is our peak year of capital spending.
In 2015 and beyond we expect capital expenditures to begin to moderate towards approximately $1.5 billion.
Let me move to sales and expand on our assumptions for the 2 businesses and the major product categories.
Beginning with Medical Products on a constant currency basis including the contribution of Gambro we expect sales growth of approximately 13% to 14%.
Excluding Gambro we expect sales for Medical Products to grow 0 to 1%.
Specifically we expect renal sales to grow approximately 40% including the benefit of continued PD penetration the incremental revenue contribution from Gambro as well as commercial synergies.
We expect fluid systems sales to decline 3% to 5% reflecting the impact of lower cyclophosphamide sales.
As we mentioned last quarter if we have 2 competitors by midyear the sales and pretax impact would equate to $150 million to $200 million.
We expect specialty pharmaceutical sales which includes our nutritional therapies and inhaled anesthetics to grow in the 3% to 5% range.
And we expect our BioPharma Solutions sales growth to be in low-single digits for the year.
For BioScience we project sales growth on a constant currency basis of 3% to 4%.
Our outlook includes growth of 4% to 5% in our hemophilia franchise which includes recombinant and plasma-derived factor VIII and factor IX therapies and FEIBA an inhibitor treatment.
While we expect increased competition for recombinant factor VIII therapies in the second half of this year performance will be fueled by underlying global demand for ADVATE where we continue to realize benefits associated with the new expanded label incremental sales related to the Brazil collaboration and new tender awards as well as the benefit from new product launches including RIXUBIS OBI-1 and FEIBA prophylaxis.
For the BioTherapeutics franchise which includes IG therapies albumin and Alpha-1 treatments we expect growth of approximately 4%.
This plan includes a contribution from HyQvia as well as accelerated volume growth of immunoglobulin therapies and Alpha-1 treatments.
However given production timing and the license renewal process for albumin in China we're expecting flat albumin sales on a global basis for the year.
In BioSurgery we expect growth in the 5% to 7% range.
And finally we expect our vaccine sales to decline by 10% to 15% as a result of lower milestone payments related to our influenza development programs which we have discontinued.
As mentioned in our press release for the first quarter we expect earnings per diluted share of $1.06 to $1.09 which excludes intangible amortization and any special items.
We expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 13% to 14%.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales growth to grow 11% to 12%.
Excluding Gambro we expect the base Baxter sales at constant currency rates to grow 2% to 3%.
In terms of calendarization of our earnings guidance for 2014 as I mentioned earlier there are a number of headwinds which are more pronounced in the first half of the year namely foreign currency and incremental interest expense.
In fact we expect approximately 80% of the FX headwind to occur in the first half of the year with 50% of the full year impact occurring in the first quarter alone.
In the second half of the year we expect increased competition in a couple of key product areas which will be partially offset by synergies related to Gambro and savings related to our business optimization initiatives.
In closing the midpoint of our guidance range for the year assumes low-single digit EPS growth in the first half of 2014 and EPS growth in mid-to-high single digits in the second half of the year.
And now let me open up the call for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on Baxter International's website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from the line of David Lewis from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Bob you talked a little bit about the BioTherapeutics business specifically albumin.
Can you just sort of update us on sort of the timeline and what's changed? It sounds like there was going to be a fourth quarter registration issue with China.
It sounds like it's delayed maybe a couple of quarters.
So maybe walk us through in sort of when you think the resolution could be.
And then related to IVIG is most of the issue really tied to albumin or are there still some lingering capacity issues on IVIG? Yes.
So first off no capacity issues on IVIG.
We've exited 2013 running at the levels that we expect and as we've said we'll be able to support at least 6% to 8% volume growth for '14 and '15 out of our existing network.
As it relates to albumin in China yes we expect here in the fourth quarter -- excuse me in the first quarter to hear on the second license.
We've already gotten approval for the first license renewal.
And so -- but given the timing of when that approval comes and the manufacturing cycle for the product it's likely that we wouldn't be able to get product into China for the second product until late this year.
So that will impact from a timing perspective.
And given the price points in China relative to other markets we will have some mix impact there but we will be able to redeploy the albumin into other markets during the course of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Very helpful Bob.
And I appreciate all the detail you gave on the headwinds and tailwinds here for 2014.
I guess the dynamic we'd love to get more visibility on is we know all these tailwinds are -- certain headwinds are out there.
We obviously don't know the timing of some of those headwinds so your guidance sort of assumes those headwinds.
But could you help us understand specific knowledge in cyclo and Suprane where do you think the competitive launches sit? And what specifically is sort of incorporated in the guidance in terms of when you expect to see that pressure? I also wondered if you could update us on the timelines for rigosertib HyQ and 855? So in terms of the competitive timing we don't have a lot more insight than we've had in the past.
We know there are a number of folks on the cyclo side who have applied for approval.
But visibility to having gotten approval and ready to launch is not great at this point.
So again our assumption is approximately by midyear we have 2 competitors in the market and if so that creates a $150 million to $200 million bottom line exposure for the company.
So that's effectively what's baked into our guidance.
We have widened the range some what we would normally do to account for the fact that competitors may come in a little earlier may come in a little bit later it may be 1 may be 2 or maybe more this year.
There isn't a lot more visibility to that on the cyclo side than what we've talked about up to this point.
And as it relates to Suprane the competitor has the ability to enter the U.S.
market as of January 1 of this year.
We've not seen them do that yet but again I'm not sure why that is and so we really can't comment on that.
But we do expect for the majority of this year that we do face some competition.
I would say on Suprane though we've always viewed that as more of an evolutionary impact and not that significant in 2014.
And do the new products market.
Yes David you were asking about rigosertib HyQ and was there a third? Research Division</strong> 855 Mary Kay.
855.
So I'll start with 855.
As you know we're completely enrolled in the Phase III clinical trial and we expect to complete the trial sometime in Q3 and have data then and file before the end of the year for 855.
So things are going fairly well there.
On HyQ really no change.
We submitted the amended BLA and we expect a 6-month review so we should hear sometime around midyear on the approval of HyQ for the U.S.
Rigosertib we are currently awaiting the data on the high-risk MDS trial.
We expect that here sometime in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of David Roman from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One financial follow-up question and then one broader strategic question.
First just on the financial piece.
Bob maybe you could go into a little bit more detail.
If you look at the gross margin line in 2014 150-basis point decline on an adjusted basis.
Is there a way to tease out how much of that is isolated to 2014 in terms of competition and changes in business mix or austerity et cetera versus what is sort of a structural change in the profitability of your business when you include Gambro? Yes absolutely.
And so of that 150-basis point change in gross margin I think about it in 3 buckets that are roughly equal impact.
One is Gambro and that's almost purely from a mix standpoint they are at the moment a lower-margin business than Baxter.
But structurally over time we do expect as we talked about to drive the majority of the overall $300 million in cost synergies we expect to drive those in the margin line.
So over time we expect that to improve.
But for 2014 the mix impact of bringing Gambro in for a full year into Baxter results is about 50 basis points on the gross margin.
Cyclo also contributes about a 50-basis point impact to the gross margin given the high contribution margin of that and the magnitude of the impact.
Again we expect numerous entrants to come in in '14 and '15 so I view this as more of a '14 '15 issue.
We think by the end of '15 given the normal trajectory of a generic situation the vast majority of what's in our base today for cyclo will be out the company results by then.
And then the third bucket which is again about 40 to 50 basis points is foreign exchange.
And that's a combination of both emerging market FX -- as you know since May of last year emerging market currencies have really deteriorated pretty significantly against the U.S.
dollar pretty much across the board and as we've talked about before we have a $900 million to $1 billion profit pool in those emerging markets that's largely unhedged.
And so that creates an issue.
The second aspect of FX is the Japanese yen.
We do hedge the yen and we had a very good rate.
In 2013 we hedged about an JPY 80 per $1 rate.
Unfortunately given how rapidly that's deteriorated the hedge rate we have for 2014 -- I'm sorry in 2013 we had the JPY 80.
In 2014 our hedge rate is about JPY 93 yen per USD 1.
So again well-hedged versus the current rate of JPY 104 but at 17% deterioration from our hedge rate in 2013.
So we do see some negative impact related to there.
And so then overall I would say that those are 3 main impacts that account for pretty much all of the impact on gross margin.
One additional comment on the directional guidance on calendarization since we talked about FX in those 2 impacts in terms of emerging markets and the yen.
As I mentioned the emerging markets in particular started to deteriorate in the second quarter of last year.
So in the first quarter of this year the year-over-year impact is pretty significant.
It's about $0.08 a share of headwind here.
The majority of that is coming through the margin line.
We have another impact in the second quarter somewhat but the FX impact as I mentioned in my prepared comments is pretty front-end loaded and that's impacting our year-over-year growth for EPS in the first part of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Maybe just from a bigger picture standpoint you had offered a Long-Range Plan in 2012 which you updated at the time of the Gambro transaction.
In December obviously there have been some changes with respect to austerity and the macroeconomic conditions since that plan was issued.
But is it still fair to look at 2014 as a trough year for organic growth and earnings progression as it relates to the Long-Range Plan? I mean any perspective you could provide on how you're doing relative to your internal expectations and we should think about the long-term picture here.
Yes David.
Bob Parkinson here.
Let me tackle that and then I'll maybe ask Bob Hombach to augment my comments if I miss anything.
First of all kind of starting at a high-level I mean clearly our long-term outlook for Baxter continues to be very positive for a lot of different reasons.
When you contrast it with our last investor conference clearly there are headwinds that have emerged that are more pronounced than what we had anticipated at the time.
I think we continued to talk about global austerity measures and so on as payers around the world struggle with financing access to healthcare and their own budgets and so on and so not only is that going to continue it's realistic to think that that very well could intensify as time moves on.
So that's more of a pronounced headwind than I think we anticipated in the fall of '12 when we had our last investor conference.
The other thing and Bob just commented on it earlier specifically as it relates to the yen.
But currencies in emerging markets are a more pronounced negative.
Certainly now we anticipate that continuing for the foreseeable future.
So those are a couple of big changes.
Of course the other operating dynamic that we deal with in '14 you mentioned the trough that is going to continue to be a challenge as we move into '15 is the cyclophosphamide generic which is a bigger product significantly so than what it was a couple of years ago.
So we're going to have to continue to ride that down.
Now on the upside I would say when -- at our last investor conference when we projected long-term top line growth we did not reflect any new business development beyond that point in time and subsequent to our investor conference we've done a number of things and clearly are committed to doing that.
So to the degree we continue to close BD transactions that will be an upside to the Long-Range Plan that we last reviewed.
The other thing I would say is we're a lot closer to our new product pipeline.
We've talked about that this morning.
You're familiar with the specifics.
Compared to 2 years ago where there -- I would say there was a higher risk element as we sit here today we have approval for a number of the products we're closer to approval on others -- other things continue to advance in the pipeline.
So I think in terms of the risk adjustment that we dialed in our new product pipeline as we move closer to these launches and in some cases have actually launched products.
We have a higher confidence level there.
So net-net how those balance out over 5 years I mean I think the long-term top line growth for the company is very much in line with what we messaged a couple years ago.
We do continue to manage through the trough as you call it in 2014.
I would caution you though that not to assume that when January 1 '15 rolls around the trough is behind us.
You got to work your way through it.
Cyclophosphamide is probably the biggest piece of that.
As you know we get competitive launches in our hemophilia franchise this year.
Although our -- as we've commented before our long-range outlook for the growth of our hemophilia franchise is very much in line with what we messaged to everyone a couple years ago.
So I realize I touched on a number of different pieces.
Bob I don't know if you have anything you want to add to that.
David is that helpful? Research Division</strong> That gives a lot more context thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Bob I think you mentioned when you chalked up some of the growth in the quarter on hemophilia and how you're looking at 2014 in addition to new products there's a fair amount of international demand and penetration with the new label.
We talked a little bit about this last year in the U.S.
prophy and convenience dosing.
Can you talk about what may be regionally in terms of health system or clinicians or researchers looking at the data that put you together for ADVATE in prophy what the effect has been outside the U.S.? And then I have one follow-up.
Yes I would say Matt that particularly in Western Europe I think the benefits of prophy have been well-understood and there are some kind of top-tier benchmarks in like countries like Sweden that have some of the highest utilization rates as well.
But there are other markets where it is under-penetrated and so the additional approval for ADVATE prophylaxis in Europe allows us to more actively promote that.
And so we are seeing benefits both in Europe and certainly in the U.S.
you've seen the performance be very strong in the U.S.
for us here.
So there continues to be opportunity to drive that create greater awareness and increase penetration because we think at the end of the day it does improve patient outcomes and quality of life over time.
Certainly having the gold standard product has helped us in a number of markets and again we're very pleased with the progress we see in Brazil.
And one of the stated objectives of the Brazilian government is to improve access to care and quality of care which prophylaxis is one of the target aspects of that that we're working with them very closely on.
So again we think there is much more mileage to be gained here on prophylaxis on a global basis as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> And then on the SG&amp;A line.
In terms of the addition of Gambro and then some of the synergies over time around that acquisition can you give us a sense of when and -- or are we already seeing that line sort of start to show some of the synergies across the acquisition maybe what the progression as a percentage of revenues would look like this year as you get through the integration and synergies.
Yes I would -- well first off I would say as we talked about there definitely is leverage in the base Baxter business excluding Gambro and FX.
In fact SG&amp;A year-over-year is flat excluding Gambro and FX for Baxter and that includes absorbing more than $40 million of incremental spend focused on important new product launches both in 2014 here and in preparation for 2015.
So I think we've done a very responsible job in the face of generic competition to drive down our base spending as much as possible while continuing to invest for future growth.
Clearly in the short term Gambro is adding but again at a leveraged rate.
We do have a meaningful amount of synergies already baked into our 2014 expectations.
As we've talked about we expect on a run-rate basis by the end of 2015 to achieve about 80% of our overall $300 million cost synergies that we expect to have.
So we're well down the path and we've baked into our 2014 assumptions here that we make meaningful progress in the first year of synergies both in SG&amp;A and in margin.
Our next question comes from the line of Derrick Sung from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to turn back to the IVIG markets and a couple of questions there.
Could you give us an update on how the HyQvia launch in Germany is going? Are you able to get the price premium kind of what you're seeing in the early days there? And then also on HyQ talk about your ability to supply the market in the U.S.
if and when you kind of get the launch there.
And then maybe if you could also then comment on IVIG market dynamics as well in terms of pricing and volumes? Yes.
So a couple of things Derrick.
So first I think the HyQvia launch in Europe is going very well.
As we've talked about we've been very targeted about the markets that we've launched in and have done a very controlled launch to ensure that we get this off to the right start with both patients and treaters and so the initial feedback has been very good and patient experience has been very good which is very important to us for the long-term positioning of this product.
We are pleased with our ability to I think get the innovation we've brought to the market recognized in the price point that we've been able to achieve in some of the markets in Europe and so we do have a meaningful price premium in those markets today and we expect as we hope to get approval here by midyear 2014 that we'll be able to do the same in the U.S.
In terms of our ability to supply the market as I mentioned earlier given our assumption around overall demand growth of about 6% to 8% on a global basis within our existing footprint we will be able to provide volume unit growth in the 6% to 8% range both for 2014 and 2015.
As you saw though we have selectively -- given our product constraints we've selectively targeted which markets we want to participate in for the long run and so while that's depressed our sales a little bit in the short term in terms of some of the markets we've exited in Europe as an example it does position us well to continue to participate in the strong growth in the U.S.
market and certainly we think HyQvia would provide a significant differentiation for us in the U.S.
So we're excited about that opportunity.
And we'll be in good position as our inventory levels have improved in the U.S.
to support strong demand going forward for that product.
And in terms of overall market dynamics I don't want to talk about too much here in specifics.
But I would say that no real change strong demand and again our ability to supply at-market growth rates is much enhanced here.
So we feel good about where we're at for 2014.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a quick follow-up on Gambro.
You talked about the rationale at the start of the -- when you announced the acquisition around revenue synergies.
And I was wondering if you could maybe give us an update on when you expect to see those revenue synergies.
How they're looking now that you're completing that -- you're in the maintenance of the acquisition and then -- or integration rather.
And then also if you could talk to the sort of the dialyzer constraint issue and sort of where we are on that with respect to Gambro.
Yes well as we've talked about this it took a little bit longer for us to close the transaction as we worked through the regulatory processes.
So in the meantime the business as you've probably seen underperformed market growth throughout 2013.
But we continue to believe in the long-term opportunity that this represents and the key drivers where we think we will be able to enhance growth going forward that would be in the dialyzer space in the acute care CRT space where we have very strong hospital presence on a global basis as well as stabilizing the in-center monitor business and getting back to more market growth rates in the low-single digits.
So in 2013 overall I'd characterize Gambro's sales growth as I'd say a slightly negative low-single digits if you will.
We're expecting to accelerate that in 2014 into low-to-mid single digits within Baxter as well as enhance our overall PD growth as well because we do think there are synergies on both the Baxter base business as well as the Gambro business as we bring these 2 together particularly in emerging and developing markets.
And so -- sorry...
And on dialyzers Derrick things are going well there.
We did bring up a new line in 2013 to enhance our dialyzer capacity in 2013.
Additional capacity will come in -- be coming in '14.
We expect about a 50% increase in capacity by the time we get to the end of 2015.
Yes.
So I would say early days on generating commercial synergies but we definitely see the opportunity and have baked some of that into our assumptions here.
And we expect that to ramp-up throughout the course of '14 and accelerate beyond that.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'll try and limit it here to just a couple of questions.
So first on Gambro the $300 million in synergies that you've targeted it looks like you're actually ahead of our estimates on what you achieve in 2014 with your SG&amp;A mid-single digit guidance and the R&amp;D low-single digit guidance was both lower than we were expecting.
So maybe try and just tie the 2.
So the $300 million what do you think that is for 2014? I would characterize it as slightly more than $100 million and recognize that as we've said a meaningful portion of that comes through the cost of goods sold line.
It will take a little bit longer with some of the actions that we need to take there but a little bit more than half of that up slightly more than $100 million coming through margin and the rest coming primarily through SG&amp;A.
But I would also say as you saw through the business optimization activities that we've done as well we've taken actions on the Baxter side on the expense base as well again to get to flat to drive some leverage given the approximately 2% sales outlook that we've got for the base business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on cyclophosphamide can you give us what the 2013 revenue contribution was? And can you make an estimate of what you think the EPS contribution was in '13 so we can kind of think about what that looks like with it out of model once we get into '15? Yes.
I'd say approximately $400 million Mike at very high contribution margins so a meaningful contribution on...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So depending on the timing of events here in '14 if we just ignore '14 for a second view it as a transition for cyclo the total contribution is somewhere in the $0.45 range? Yes.
It might be a little higher than that.
And again we're thinking about with multiple entrants coming in over the next 2 years and the normal flow of a generic situation like this by the end of '15 on a run-rate basis we expect roughly 85% to 90% of this to be out of our base by then.
Our next question comes from the line of Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I wanted to ask about what you guys are doing behind the scenes in front of the Biogen launch.
We've all done street surveys have talked to docs and patients about uptake and there's a great deal of awareness and desire to switch to longer-acting agents.
So in front of the Biogen launch I'm sure you guys are being very active in talking to your distributors and patients about the benefits of ADVATE and what you have going on in the pipeline so I just wanted to give you guys the opportunity to talk about what you're doing in the background ahead of this Biogen launch.
Yes let me -- Glenn Bob Parkinson.
I'm just going to handle that at a high level but you can rest assured that we're doing a lot of things.
I'm not sure I want to specify specifically what those are so I'm not going to give you any satisfaction in that regard.
I would say that we have more time to do those things than what we had anticipated a few months ago given Biogen's announcement that their launch was going to be delayed.
So I think the important thing to recognize is we have more time.
We're not sparing any expense or focus to appropriately first and foremost promote the merits of ADVATE and -- but beyond that I don't think it's constructive to get into specific aspects of our marketing program for a number of reasons.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 follow-ups.
In the past you've talked about ADVATE and the new label and the percentage of adoption or sales.
Is that continuing to increase? Yes.
Glenn we're seeing both conversions to prophylaxis in general and then conversions to extending the dosing regimen to every 3 days versus every 2 days.
And as we've talked about hemophilia treatment is very much a person patient -- personal patient-by-patient approach here.
And we've done some surveys of our own and have shown that a majority of our patients are already doing an alternate regimen from kind of the standard of care of every 2-day dosing for prophylaxis.
So a meaningful portion of our patient base is already doing something 3 days or longer from a dosing interval.
And so we're going to continue to highlight the strong track record of ADVATE the very low bleed rates the very very low inhibitor rates and continue to enhance our offering from a convenience standpoint in terms of the administration process as well as continuing to work with patients and treaters to develop tools that allow them to even further personalize.
We've talked about a PK dosing tool that we have in development that we are excited about and we think will again further enhance our leadership position.
So a number of things we're doing here to leverage a very strong label for ADVATE.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then just lastly do you have -- can you share with us your assumption as to potential market share loss in 2014 or 2015 or switching rates that you anticipate? And then I'll jump back into queue.
Yes no.
I don't think it's appropriate for us to get into that.
I mean we've assumed in our guidance basically what's been said publicly which is roughly a midyear launch.
As we've said all along we think this is a market that will take its time to understand any new product offerings and a very well-educated patient population that's going to understand the treatment trade-offs that they're going to have to consider and so on.
We've baked that into our expectation as Bob mentioned over the next several years and over the long run our long-term view of how this evolve really hasn't changed.
And Glenn I would add I think in our prepared remarks we did talk about the fact that although we expect the increased competition we do have a significant amount of sales related to FEIBA prophylaxis treatment RIXUBIS OBI-1 all coming a lot in the back half that'll offset some of the competitive impact that we expect.
Our next question comes from the line of Rick Wise from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two things I guess.
One product specific and one a bigger picture.
Bob you talked about VIVIA recently receiving the CE Mark.
Maybe just give us a little more detail on the launch plans and market penetration expectations.
Just I mean you're launching in one country multiple companies and the broader 2015 launch is that throughout Europe? And maybe talk to us a little bit about the slow ramp and just your thinking behind all that.
And then I'll ask my other question.
Rick the thinking behind the slower launch is this is a new product and it is a new system and it is a new electromechanical device.
It is sophisticated.
It is complex.
And as a result we feel that it's prudent to be very controlled and disciplined on the roll out.
Our excitement about the long-term potential of this product is every bit as high as it's ever been.
The prospects of allowing patients to do hemodialysis in the home nocturnally significantly increasing the number of hours on therapy and our belief that advancing important clinical outcomes as a result will be demonstrated over time.
So the long-term potential for this product is we think tremendously exciting.
Having said that there's no percentage in getting ahead of ourselves on this and so the comments that I made in my prepared statement about the limited launch in '14 is really about that.
It's about being controlled and disciplined and this is kind of a long-term journey but the opportunity is every bit as significant as we've ever felt.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just any granularity on what countries and what kind of institutions that you're going to be launching in the next 6 12 months? No.
I don't want to get into the specifics of that.
It's actually -- it's more of on a center-by-center basis.
So it will be multiple countries.
But obviously centers that exhibit an interest that we believe can be good partners.
There's a big service component to this as well over and above the product.
And so it's really important to select partners in terms of centers that we feel lay the groundwork for again kind of a controlled and successful launch.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Just a follow-up on operating margins.
I appreciate there are a ton of moving pieces.
Can you help us at all with sort of directional targets the next couple of years? I mean you've had a sort of a 23-ish percent operating margin for much of the recent history.
How long does it take to get back to that level given all the moving pieces? Is it a couple of years? Is this going to be more in the 3- to 5-year kind of timeframe? Any sort of color would be welcome.
Sure and I'll speak to kind of the new way we're going to be reporting here because obviously we've provided historical information on what Baxter looks like excluding intangible amortization which again was all booking to gross margin and having about 120-basis point impact or so on gross margins historically.
So when you wash that through and restate the base and look at our operating margin expectations for 2014 they're not that different from where we've been historically though they'll be a bit below 23% at this point.
I would definitely view Q1 -- excuse me Q4 2013 operating margin as a -- not representative of where we're going.
We clearly had some very specific factors impacting Q4 of 2013.
Again just pulling amortization out in and of itself moves it 120 basis points or so.
So I would say going forward if you back out FX at this point our 2014 operating margin expectation is basically flat to 2013.
Despite the fact that we're absorbing cyclo and a number of other headwinds we'll again have a cyclo headwind next year but we're going to continue to drive leverage in the business launch new products with higher margins drive Gambro synergies and so on and as we projected in our long-range outlook that over the next several years we would expect to generate 200 to 300 additional points of operating margin leverage going forward.
That's still our expectation.
Again I think 2015 will be somewhat clouded by cyclo but beyond that all those factors I mentioned are going to come into play here and provide leverage for us going forward.
Our final question comes from the line of Matthew Dodds from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Bob on the gross margin for the fourth quarter you definitely had a positive mix from cyclophosphamide in terms of mix price.
And recombinant factor VIII you highlighted Gambro.
But to drop 150 basis points x Gambro of the things that you highlighted foreign exchange pension austerity LA frac was any outsized this quarter? Yes.
I would highlight the LA-related costs are really non-recurring.
So this is really the realization of the downtime and ramp-up back in the second quarter of this year as we were bringing the old LA facility up.
As we talked about that was about a $25-million cost that we thought and really a lot of that is impacting the fourth quarter here.
And so that's in the neighborhood of 50 basis points or so in and of itself.
And there were a couple of small inventory reserves we topped off and FX certainly was a driver there as well.
Research Division</strong> And then just one additional quick question.
For Brazil with the Hemobras deal you said $70 million in 2013? That was the incremental yes.
Research Division</strong> Did you have any sales in 2012 as a...
Well yes we do want to recognize the fact that we had some modest plasma-derived sales.
I would say less than $20 million in that neighborhood.
And so obviously they're converting the market from plasma to recombinant so we're losing plasma sales and getting recombinant.
But we've netted those 2 out in the $70 million incremental.
Research Division</strong> But there -- in 2012 there was no recombinant sales to Brazil? Right.
Correct.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Baxter International’s First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your line will remain in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer segment of today’s call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter’s permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Q1 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Ludwig Hantson President of BioScience; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today’s press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today’s call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter’s ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thank you all for calling in.
As you read in the press release issued earlier this morning Baxter reported strong financial results for the first quarter which exceeded expectations and we’ve also confirmed our full year 2014 guidance.
Adjusted earnings increased 9% to $1.19 per diluted share and worldwide sales excluding currency increased 16%.
Excluding Gambro and foreign currency Baxter’s sales advanced 5%.
Positive momentum is building and Baxter is off to a strong start in 2014.
I’m pleased that we delivered strong financial results continued to enhance our flexibility to invest for future growth and position the company for sustained performance and success.
Our new product pipeline is focused on a number of programs that improve the quality of care and address key high potential areas of unmet medical needs.
Some recent highlights in the quarter include FDA approval of a label change allowing for a shorter total infusion time for GLASSIA a chronic augmentation and maintenance therapy for hereditary emphysema and under diagnosed condition characterized by a low level of alpha-1 protein in the blood.
This change enhances convenience and allows for less overall time for the entire infusion process from preparation to administration.
Also success in meeting the primary efficacy endpoint in the phase III study of BAX 111.
The first stand-alone recombinant treatment in clinical development for von Willebrand Disease for a on-demand bleeding events.
We expect to file for regulatory approval in the United States before the end of 2014.
We also intend to pursue a study for a prophylaxis indication.
Baxter also presented interim data that the European association for Haemophilia and Allied Disorders from our first year observation from the ADVATE HaEmophilia A Database study a four year outcomes registry of Hemophilia A patients.
A total of 562 patients have been enrolled to-date.
And the data supports the clinical experience of prophylaxis treatment with ADVATE showing 51% experienced no bleeds during the one year of treatment.
Also in the quarter we executed a new exclusive agreement with Xenetic Biosciences for the development of BAX 826 a recombinant Factor VIII therapy for hemophilia A utilizing Xenetic’s proprietary polysialic acid technology.
BAX 826 is currently in preclinical development as a treatment that maybe administered less frequently potentially at once weekly intervals without compromising efficacy.
At lastly during the quarter the company acquired Chatham Therapeutics including their developmental Gene Therapy preclinical hemophilia A and ongoing hemophilia B programs and the potential application for additional hemophilia treatments.
As you may recall Baxter and Chatham are currently in a phase I II trial evaluating Chatham’s Biological Nano Particle platform as the potential treatment for hemophilia B.
The vector-based technology which provides a mechanism for the patients on liver to begin producing Factor IX following a single dose of the genetically engineered treatment as the potential to redefine the concept of longer acting therapy.
And finally in the first quarter as you all know we reached a significant milestone in our company’s history with the announcement of our plans to create two separate independent global healthcare companies one focused on developing and marketing innovative biopharmaceuticals and the other on life saving medical products.
This decision supports Baxter’s evolution and underscores our commitment to ensuring our long-term strategic priorities remain lined with shareholders best interest while creating value for patients healthcare providers and other key stakeholders.
The two businesses operate in distinct markets with the corresponding underlying fundamentals and each possess unique and compelling growth prospects investment requirements and risk profiles.
The spin-off will create two well capitalized independent companies with strong balance sheets investment grade profiles and disciplined approaches to capital allocation.
And other benefits of this include one greater management focus on the distinct businesses of biopharmaceuticals and medical products the ability to more effectively commercialize new and existing product offerings.
The ability to drive innovation across the franchises and allocate necessary resources to the areas presenting the highest growth potential and the flexibility to pursue respective growth and investment strategies resulting in revenue acceleration improved profitability and enhanced returns.
We look forward to closing this transaction by mid-2015 and preparations are already been made to affect in efficient and orderly transition to position both companies to capitalize on the exciting opportunities that the future holds.
So with that I would like to ask Bob at this point review financial results for the first quarter and also discuss our guidance for the remainder of 2014.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted per share in the first quarter advanced 9% to $1.19 which exceeded our previously issued guidance range of $1.06 to $1.09 per share.
These financial results include an after tax gain of $35 million or $0.06 per share associated with the sale of certain equity investments which will largely be reinvested in the business over the balance of the year.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP earnings of $1.01 per diluted share included after tax special items totaling $96 million or $0.18 per share for intangible asset amortization and cost associated with the integration of Gambro business development and business optimization initiatives.
The business optimization initiatives include additional cost related to the decision to explore strategic options for the vaccines and cell therapies R&amp;D programs.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to the financial outlook for 2014.
Starting with sales worldwide sales were approximately $4 billion advanced 15%.
On a constant currency basis sales rose 16% and exceeded our guidance range primarily due to strong demand for hemophilia products as well as the accelerated timing of vaccine milestone payments and a renal PD tender.
Excluding Gambro revenues of $400 million which were in line with expectations Baxter sales rose 5% on a constant currency basis.
In terms of individual business performance Global BioScience sales of more than $1.6 billion advanced 5% in the first quarter.
On the constant currency basis sales increased 6%.
Within the product categories hemophilia sales of $827 million increased 8% or 9% on a constant currency basis.
This is the result of capitalizing on our global leadership position and brand differentiation broadening our portfolio with new product launches like RIXUBIS for the treatment of Hemophilia B and expanding access to care particularly in emerging markets.
Specifically global demand for ADVATE remain strong as we continue to benefit from our label expansion improved prophylaxis penetration and shipments to Brazil as part of our ongoing collaboration with Hemobrás to enhance access to Recombinant factor A therapy.
We have now converted more than 30% of the total patients in Brazil and we expect to generate sales of more than $100 million in 2014.
In addition global demand for FEIBA also remained robust resulting in double digit sales growth in the quarter.
In BioTherapeutics sales of $502 million declined 1% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Growth in the U.S.
of 7% was a result of improved cost availability and growth of the Immune Globulin therapies albumin and alpha-1 treatments.
This strength was more than offset by lower sales in international markets as a result of lower albumin sales in China and decisions to exit certain markets due to previous supply constraints.
Sales in BioSurgery of $176 million increased 2% on a constant currency basis sales rose 3% driven by demand for surgical sealants like TISSEL and COSEAL.
As you know both of these products is tied directly to growth in surgical procedures.
Finally vaccines revenue totaled $103 million and increased 23%.
Sales advanced 25% on a constant currency basis driven primarily by accelerated milestone payments of approximately $40 million related to ongoing government collaborations for the development of influenza vaccines.
In medical products global sales exceeded $2.3 billion and increased 22%.
On a constant currency basis sales advanced 24%.
Excluding Gambro and foreign currencies medical product sales grew 4%.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $991 million including Gambro sales of $400 million.
Excluding Gambro and foreign currency renal sales increased 4%.
This was a result of strong PD growth of 9% supported by strong patient gain in the U.S.
and emerging markets that also benefit from the timing of certain tender sales of more than $15 million.
This momentum was partially offset by the divestiture of the CRRT business.
Sales in the fluid system category of $757 million increased 2% or 3% on a constant currency basis.
Performance continued to be driven by price improvements for the injectable oncology drug cyclophosphamide which more than offset lower sales of drug delivery systems.
Especially pharmaceuticals which includes our inhaled anesthetics and nutritional therapies posted sales of $367 million reflecting an increase of 1%.
Sales rose 2% on the constant currency basis as strong global anesthesia growth offset lower sales of certain nutritional therapies resulting from ongoing supplier shortages.
Finally sales in BioPharma solutions which is our pharma partner business totaled $228 million with close to 1% on a reported basis or 4% on a constant basis.
This performance attributed primarily to the easing of supply constraints which impacted orders and shipments in the first quarter of last year.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L gross margin in the quarter was 51.0% compared to 51.7% last year.
Margin expansion in the base Baxter business was more than offset by the impact of lower margin Gambro business and in foreign currency.
SG&amp;A totaled $903 million and increased 16% with the Gambro acquisition accounting for the vast majority of the growth.
Excluding Gambro SG&amp;A increased 2% as leverage close to arise and benefits associated with our business optimization initiatives.
This was partially offset by select investments and promotional and marketing initiatives for new product launches and with the international market to enhance our global presence.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $282 million increased 15% versus the prior year.
Excluding Gambro R&amp;D rose 2% and continuous to be driven by investments we are making to advance a number of programs in our pipeline including those in our leading hemophilia franchise programs to leverage our expertise in the therapeutic areas of hematology oncology and immunology and investments in renal therapies aimed and improving patient outcomes across the continuum of care.
The operating margin in the quarter of 21% is lower than last year’s operating margin of 22%.
However excluding Gambro leverage in the base Baxter business was also been an operating margin improvement of 80 basis points to 22.8% versus the prior year.
Interest expense was $43 million which reflects recent debt issuances to fund both the Covington plasma manufacturing site and the Gambro acquisition.
Other income totaled $41 million compared to income of $30 million last year.
This includes $44 million of pre-tax gains associated with the sale of certain equity investments.
As referenced earlier on an after tax basis this equates to benefit of $35 million or $0.06 per share with largely reinvested in the business over the balance of the year.
The tax rate was 21.4% for the quarter in line with our expectations and as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share advanced 9% to $1.19.
For the first quarter cash flow from operations was very strong and totaled $559 million.
This reflects an improvement versus last year of approximately $175 million.
DSO ended the quarter at 53.6 days and excluding Gambro Baxter’s DSO was 49.9 days lower than the prior year by 3.7 days.
Inventory turns of 2.0 or lower than 2.2 turns in the prior year period due to increased plasma inventories to support strong demand and future growth.
Lastly in the first three months of this year we repurchased approximately 3.7 million shares for $250 million or on a net basis 1.2 million shares for $123 million in line with our full year objective.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our financial outlook for the second quarter and full year 2014.
For the full year we continued to expect adjusted earnings of $5.05 to $5.25 per diluted share.
As we know that last quarter we are providing a lighter range it’s been our historical practice as a number of factors and assumptions impact the outlook particularly headwinds created by cyclophosphamide competition in emerging market FX volatility.
Specifically by line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we continue to expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 9% to 10% which includes annual sales of more than $1.6 billion for Gambro.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales growth of approximately 8% to 9%.
Excluding Gambro we expect the base Baxter sales to grow approximately 2% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year we continued to expect gross margin for the company to decline by approximately 150 basis points in the 2013 margin of 52%.
Given the strong first quarter we expect the first half margin to be approximately 40 to 50 basis points higher than the gross margin in the second half which includes the impact of new competitive entrants.
In terms of expenses as mentioned earlier our first quarter performance enhances our flexibility to invest in the business to drive future growth.
Therefore we now expect R&amp;D to grow in mid-single digits and SG&amp;A to grow in mid-to-high single digits.
We expect interest expense to total approximately $160 million and we now expect other income of approximately $40 million for the year.
We expect the tax rate of approximately 21.5% and we expect a full year average share count of approximately 547 million shares which assumes approximately 300 million in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we continue to expect to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $3.5 billion.
We expect capital expenditures of approximately $1.8 billion which includes Gambro and the investments we are making to enhance our plasma manufacturing footprint in Covington Georgia.
Let me move to sales and expand our assumptions for the two businesses and the major product categories which are very consistent with our original guidance.
Beginning with medical products on a constant currency basis including the contribution of Gambro we expect sales growth of approximately 13% to 14%.
Excluding Gambro we expect sales from medical products to grow 0% to 1%.
Specifically we expect renal sales to grow approximately 40% including the benefit of continued PD penetration the incremental revenue contribution from Gambro as well as commercial synergies.
We expect fluid system sales to decline 3% to 5% reflecting the impact of lower cyclophosphamide sales.
As we mentioned if we have two competitors by mid-year the sales and pre-tax impact would equate to $150 million to $200 million.
We expect specialty pharmaceutical sales which includes our nutritional therapies and inhaled anesthetics to grow in the 3% to 5% range.
And we now expect our BioPharma Solutions sales to be flat for the full year.
For BioScience we project sales growth excluding foreign currency at 3% to 4%.
Our outlook includes growth of 4% to 5% in our hemophilia franchise.
Well we continue to expect to increase competition for recombinant factor VIII therapies in the second half of this year performance will be fueled by underlying global demand for ADVATE convergent to recombinant therapy in Brazil new tender awards as well as the benefit from new product launches including RIXUBIS OBI-1 and FEIBA prophylaxis.
For the BioTherapeutics franchise we continue to expect growth of approximately 4% with sales of albumin in China and immunoglobulin therapies ramping up particularly in the second half of the year.
In BioSurgery we expect growth in the 5% to 7% range.
And finally given the first quarter performance we now expect our vaccine sales to decline in low single-digits.
As mentioned in our press release for the second quarter we expect earnings per diluted share excluding special items of $1.18 to $1.22 which reflects the timing benefits that were accelerated and recorded in the first quarter.
We expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 12% to 13%.
Excluding Gambro we expect the base Baxter sales at constant currency rates to grow approximately 2%.
Thanks.
I’ll now open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on Baxter International’s website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Bob simply start off on the financial guidance for the second quarter obviously a very nice start to the first quarter year on earnings some of that was the gain but just the underlying business was stronger and margins are good.
Can you talk us about what factors change here in the second quarter because that earnings number is little lower and you would have expect to get assuming the strength in the first quarter? Certainly David.
Yes there are definitely an unusual number of timing impacts here that have benefited the first quarter to the determent of the second quarter.
And I would gage that in a $0.05 to $0.06 range.
And so let me walk you through those it’s really two main things.
We have a collaboration on the vaccine side to do a tech transfer related to our Vero cell technology we expected milestones to occur later in the year and including in the second quarter.
The good news is those were completed a bit early and fully recognized in the first quarter but that does create about $0.03 of upside in the first quarter at the expense of the second quarter.
And then secondly again along the lines of revenue recognition in terms of timing of when tender sales occur we have a large tender in the PD franchise that we expected in the second that occurred in the first.
The combination of those two and a couple other things really is what drove the strong performance in the first quarter.
I would also mention that as you know the gains in the first quarter that we highlighted there of $0.06 related to the two minority investments that were sold.
We also incurred incremental FX in the first quarter that dampened the impact of some of these timing benefits primarily related to Argentina and other emerging market impacts including related to the Gambro business.
So a lot going on between the first and second quarter I think if you look at the two of them combined it will give you a better sense of where we’re at and that’s largely why if we looked at the full year we’d maintain our full year guidance again a lot of volatility potentially we have ahead of us with cyclo and FX but operationally a very very solid start.
Okay.
And David I would also add that in plasma we have some plasma tender timing as well that impacts the second quarter versus the prior year.
Those tenders are going to occur more in the third and fourth quarter this year versus some of the major tenders that occurred in the second quarter last year.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Very helpful.
And then maybe just a follow-up.
The key strength where we’ve seen in the last couple of quarters has been but still and I imagine that’s a surprise for certain investors.
So if we think about that strength in the last two quarters obviously it’s coming out of the U.S.
markets.
And there is really two factors going on this quarter it feels like one is Brazil and there maybe some of the early product launches like RIXUBIS but you talked about Brazil being about $100 million in 2014.
Frankly based on the trend-line out of 2013 in the first quarter result $100 million just seems low.
So is there anything going on in terms of the timing of Brazil or maybe you can give us the mix of the factors contributing to U.S.
in the affiliate strength during the first quarter.
Just seems that that $100 million number could go a lot higher in 2014? Yes it could go somewhat higher David.
I would tell you in the first quarter though the contribution from Brazil was not outside in the sense of what the trend would need to be in order for us to deliver something just north of $100 million.
So we’re very pleased with the progress we’re making.
And so that certainly is a contributor but frankly ADVATE continues to do well in many other international markets including markets like Japan where we’ve had very strong growth over the last couple of years.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan is on the line with the questions.
Please state your questions.
Thanks.
Question on clarifications on the guidance.
So the – it looks like you took another price increase about 30% on cyclophosphamide in January.
Can you just maybe clarify what you’re assuming in the second quarter relative to competition I haven’t seen anybody announcing it then.
Just want to clarify what you’re assuming? And then second look at guidance for the year I assume you weren’t assuming the $0.06 gain in the original guidance.
So why should we move up number by $0.06 given the gain here this quarter? Thanks.
Okay.
Couple of things so on cyclo I’d like to first point out we in our Q1 guidance did not assume any competition nor do we see any competition and results in the first quarter were basically as expected.
So cyclo was not a contributor to our performance in the first quarter relative to our guidance.
At this point we’re not expecting competitive entrants though very late in the second quarter so not much impact in the second quarter either but certainly in the back-half then depending on when the second and or third enters in that will determine how that plays out for the remainder of the year but for the second quarter again not expecting significant competitive impact on cyclo.
As to the price increase we did take a price increase obviously there are different channels and different customer relationships I wouldn’t say with across the board at the same level but we did take a price increase in the first quarter.
And then the gain Bob.
As it relates to the gain yes.
And so as I mentioned there are some aspects here as well in the first quarter FX being 1.
But as we look at the balance of the year in some of the areas that we want to ensure reposition ourselves to generate the best success.
We are looking at R&amp;D and SG&amp;A reinvestment here that over the balance of the year we’re not going to be taking that gain to the bottom-line.
And we did change our guidance...
I have a question for Bob Parkinson.
And I really want to focus on strategy for the medical product side of the business close within.
Can you just talk little bit about what drives that business and I’m really thinking not only about the top-line but about margins obviously it’s going to be a big regions that the next pertaining two months with Cyclophosphamide going away.
But once that’s done what drives there when your top-line but what drives margins there and what periods kind of the story beyond this be currently underlying growth we’re seeing right now? Thanks.
Yes.
Okay Mike.
So let me not be too lengthy in my response because there is not a simple response.
So let me start with the Gambro acquisition.
Which as we discussed before it allows us to participate in a leadership role in a large global markets that we believe will grow in the 5% to 6% range long-term.
And so the acquisition of Gambro the expansion of our presence augmenting our PD business to address treatment of end-stage renal disease a significant long-term growth platform for the newly defined medical products business but I think you all understand that.
Within the traditional medication delivery business if you will again our plans are to intensify focus in those product categories that are higher growth than higher margins.
So anesthesia would be one parenteral nutrition would be another.
Also there continue to be opportunities to improve margins in our core global IV business in terms of manufacturing efficiencies productivity supply chain productivity in the like.
So again there is not a simple answer to that.
I think there is a lot of levers might that can be pulled to enhance margin over the long-term in the newly defined Baxter if you will going forward.
And I would also say that as we’ve accelerated business development activity over the last couple of years certainly it is our plan to continue that as we go forward with the new company.
So I think the – I think the – with increased focus which is one of the primary rationales behind the decision to spin-off the Biopharmaceuticals business with an increased focus globally frankly I think will allow us to address a number of margin improvement opportunities over time.
Great.
Thank you Bob.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bruce Nudell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Bruce are you there? Please check your mute button sir.
And we’ll move on to our next question.
Our next question comes from Larry Keusch of Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Just to perhaps for Bob Hombach.
Bob you obviously mentioned in your prepared comments that the underlying Baxter gross margin has been improving I believe you said up 80 basis points year-over-year.
So I just want to dig into that and fully understand what is driving those improvements there because that’s pretty impressive? And then secondly if we could just get an update on where you guys stand with the large volume infusion pumps? Sure.
So yeah the comment was around operating margin and there is obviously a number of factors there in the base Baxter business FX calling FX to the side which has tended to be more of a headwind in the last couple of quarters.
Mix certainly placed in ADVATE strong hemophilia sales here for the quarter.
The business optimization efforts that we put into not only this year but last year as well are certainly playing into that.
The vaccine milestones come with fairly high margins as well.
So those being recognized here in the first quarter were beneficial as well.
And we are starting to see the benefits of the Gambro synergies starting to come into the -I know we’re talking about the base Baxter business but overall that is something that’s going to drive our margins throughout the rest of the year.
Okay great.
And then on the pump side where do we stand there? So update on the pumps as we had filed the necessary documents and are waiting for the review to be complete and we expect to hear something about in middle of this year so I don’t think there is really any other update at this point.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Miksic of Piper Jaffray.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Wanted to ask just Bob if I could Bob Hombach on the gain and the FX loss you mentioned the FX the incremental FX kind of offsetting the gain.
I guess we were looking for about a dime of FX impact this year.
Did this push you closer to $0.15 or can you give us anymore color on to just how that offsets that number? And then I have a couple of quick follow-ups.
Yes.
So Matt actually we characterize them more like a $0.15 at the time we gave guidance for the full year we had FX at about $0.15 headwind.
And in fact it’s going to be a little bit higher than that given the Argentina situation as well as how things are playing out.
I think I would note about FX is historically a stronger euro would be beneficial to Baxter given the size of our business there and a overall global manufacturing footprint.
As we bring Gambro into the fold though the vast majority of their manufacturing a lot of their cost base is in euro.
And so we’re actually like we benefit less from a stronger euro in the near-term but it did increase our exposure to all other currencies outside the U.S.
given the footprint they have.
And so as emerging market currencies have continued to struggle a bit our current set up here with Gambro given the stronger euro and the weaker emerging market currencies actually creates incremental FX downsides in that original $0.15 assumption.
That’s helpful.
And then the other comment I think that Bob or one of your mate here in the beginning of the call was around sort of synergies or sort of the broad portfolio of hemophilia products of course FEIBA launching in the quarter appropriate FEIBA and OUS strength.
I guess can you tell us little bit about anything that any sort of -any sort of synergy effects of launching these multiple therapies into this general category whether it’s for hemophilia B hemophilia A or the treatment of inhibitors as in FEIBA that you’re seeing develop in the market either in the U.S.
or international? And then I have just one last quick one.
So a couple of things I want to come back to the comment that was made on the strong demand x U.S.
for the hemophilia.
I must add to that that we also continue to see strong demand for ADVATE and FEIBA in the U.S.
And although it’s not reflecting the sales numbers still there were some inventory adjustments versus first quarter of last quarter.
So we stick to our full guidance and believe that the U.S.
is also showing a very strong demand.
As far as the launches is concerned the launches are staggered geographically RIXUBIS at this moment a U.S.
launch company as you know we still needed the application end of last year both in Europe as well as Japan and so we expect to launch RIXUBIS ex-U.S.
by the beginning of 2015.
As far as the launch is -are concerned so as this prophy is on track we launched this in 2012 we’ve had more than 500 patients on ADVATE FEIBA prophy is on track.
We launched this in the beginning of this year and it is ahead of expectations and it’s also reflected in our numbers and the RIXUBIS launch as I said in the U.S.
is on track.
We’ve converted quite some patients so we really pleased with the launches in our hemophilia franchise.
Great and then Ludwig the last one actually is for you.
Just if you – we’re all looking at competition – to throw the competition in the back-half in hemophilia and of course also to some top-line indication of the 855 data hopefully on mid-year or third quarter.
And I’m just wondering you’ve said us before that if you did receive anti-inhibitor in that data that you would announce it as you receive data shortly thereafter.
If you could help us understand was the trial fully enrolled in say November or wherever it was is how far along here do we need to be to feel like or can we feel like there is any sort of comfort level that okay we’ve gotten this far in with anti-inhibitor inhibitors usually happen in whatever the early part of that therapy.
Any color you could provide us is to whether we should be feeling more comfortable as we get to May or June or July or what’s the timing would be very helpful? Thanks.
Yeah so I’m not going to speculate on the outcome of the study but as far as timing is concerned yes we did enrolled less patients in this study end of last year it is a six month study so that will give you some idea of when the last patient last assessment will be and correct we have not seen anti-inhibitors.
We planned to release the data third quarter of this year with a submission before the end of this year.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
First question was on the Biotherapeutics business just on the ramp in the back-half of the year.
Can you maybe just enumerate some of the details that are supporting that I presume on albumin its obtaining the licenses in China but you maybe update us on the Sanquin as well in that question? With respect BioT if you did see a negative growth for international in the first quarter we believe that this is going to change moving forward with particular guidance that we give for the full year for BioT which is plus 4%.
So you will see an uptake in growth in the next quarters.
There is an impact of albumin especially on the China IG International will pick up also in the next quarters so that’s what where we are.
Yeah and we do expect to start meaningful shipments to China and albumin in the second quarter David we already have one of the two licenses renewed and so at this rate we expect to sell almost as much albumin in China this year as we did last year.
And then the ramp in IG is that coming from the contribution from IQ or ramp up in production somewhere else? It will primarily come from the IG business and the substitute business not from IQ as we said the ramp up for this for IQ ex-U.S.
as well as U.S.
will be minimal but there will be some contribution with respect to your question on Sanquin – Sanquin will not have an impact on the 2014 numbers.
Okay great.
And… I would just add David; we didn’t expect Sanquin to impact 2014 as the capacity won’t come on until early next year.
Got it okay.
And then on the renal business I think you said 4% organic growth that included the tender win but I know its early in the Gambro integration process but can you give us some sense as to what the magnitude of commercial sort of clinical revenue synergies you might be able to realize in that deal going forward and can that business get to sort of a sustainably ex these had a one-time tenders of 4% to 6% growth rate over time? Yeah David Bob Parkinson here.
First of all yes is the answer to your – the last part of your question that clearly is our expectation.
It’s a little bit early in the game to quantify commercial synergies although I would say the first quarter for Gambro and revenue came in virtually spot on our model and of course the rest of the renal business the legacy renal business was even stronger than our forecast.
And we’re beginning to see early stages of synergies one example would be certain tenders where our ability to bid more broadly with product offerings and all the categories allow us to compete were previously we’ve been able to -unable to do that.
So we anticipate that we’re going to be able to experience more things like that as we go forward.
But certainly the long-term projection the growth of Baxter’s renal business broadly defined both the legacy business and Gambro is going to be very much in line with what I said.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Josh Jennings of Cowen and Company.
Hi good morning thanks for taking the questions.
Just a follow-up on David’s question is with the Gambro acquisition I think Bob you said $400 million this quarter and PD growth of 9%.
Are you seeing some early cannibalization of your historic hemodialysis business and is there any qualification there? Well our historic hemodialysis business is very modest so I don’t think there is any cannibalization that we’re seeing that at all Bob I don’t know if you have any.
Yeah of course well two things I would say we did mention that the CRT divestiture that was about a $55 million business that we had to divest as part of the closing the deal.
So that will be throughout 2014 from a growth rate perspective.
And while there are some modest impacts because largely our HT business previously was through was self acting as the distributor for other parties and now that we’ve acquired Gambro that will – that will tail-off overtime but in 2014 no significant impacts that we’re expecting on those relations.
Josh I think it’s important for you and everyone to understand to that you raised a question of cannibalization in terms of our legacy home presence with PD and of course our aspirations to launch our new home hemodialysis systems.
We really believe that our broader position resulting from the Gambro acquisition will actually enhance our ability to penetrate the market on both our traditional PD business as well as support the home HT launches as those cascade out overtime.
So we see that as a positive synergistic effect.
All right great thanks for that.
And then just one for Ludwig just on the BAX 111 approval can you just help us frame the global von Willebrand factor market and I’ll stop there.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Josh and maybe I should correct you we didn’t get approval.
Your question is 111? Yes.
So we got the phase III results and we released those early this week so we’re really pleased with the results the products a couple of things on the product it could be the first recombinant von Willebrand and we received orphan status in U.S.
and Europe.
It’s a pure von Willebrand molecule with a ratio of 100:1.
The phase III study was very positive since the 100% of the patients had positive response on the efficacy rating scale which we read on with the FDA.
As far as the market is concerned currently it says $300 million to $400 million it’s a 100% plasma.
But I do see taking this opportunity to grow this market to increase diagnosis – diagnosis rates are really low as well as prophy used since the prophy used is really is about 5% in total and when you look at the type III severe patients it’s only a 20%.
So we look at this market as a potential market where we continue to make difference in those patients life and increase the value.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now opened.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just to clarify back on Mike’s original question.
Was the gain on the sale of the investment contemplated in your guidance that you issued back in January? No not.
Okay.
And then just on… Kristen can I just add to that as well because I think Mike’s question I try to jump in but we did increase the guidance in terms of our R&amp;D spend.
We did have an acquisition in the quarter Chatham which is going to increase some R&amp;D on this as well as some other things that are planned as we accelerate some program.
So guidance there went up as well as guidance in SG&amp;A.
Okay.
And these investments have you disclosed or is there any filing to share which what exactly you sold and why sold them.
I know you guys have had a portfolio of investments.
Well actually these were much more -much older investments going back 12 to 15 years there were minority positions we had the underlying companies made an independent decision to sell.
And so we really had no impact on the timing and they both happen to happen in the first quarter and they were sold to private firms.
One of them was GHX which is an EDI platform that a number of large healthcare companies got together to form a contortion again 10 15 years ago and so that was recently sold to again to a private firm.
So that’s really the extend of it.
Right the gain was nothing in your control in terms of the timing it was just simply these underlying companies were sold to you? Yes they own less than 10% I think both we had a very little say on timing.
Okay great.
And then you’d also mentioned I guess Bob you had mentioned kind of the parenteral nutrition business and your interest there.
How do you just think about I guess expanding that business would you consider to run acquisitions kind bolster up your nutritional franchise.
And does I guess the split off I guess in general just make it a little bit more challenging to do M&amp;A over the next year or so? I mean this certainly in terms of -in terms of the financial strength clearly we have the ability to continue the kinds of acquisitions that we’ve done in the recent past.
I actually think in some ways Kristen after the split we might have been have more latitude and flexibility to pursue some things given the nature of the new Baxter without the biopharmaceutical business that would be more aligned with expectations of shareholders.
So clearly business development acquisitions are very much part of our strategy at the new Baxter going forward.
And the area parenteral nutrition specifically I think is a significantly under penetrated market globally.
And I think the opportunity there is really more internal investment to cultivate the growth of that market whereas you know we’re a leader in that market today.
Whether specifically there are acquisition candidates within parenteral nutrition not really going to comment it is an evident to me that there are but the key thing is the underdeveloped nature of that market I think with the increased focus and associated investment and opportunity to accelerate the growth of that product category.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bruce Nudell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Thanks for bearing with me phone problems here.
Ludwig it’s been very hard to get an extension of the half-life refractory.
And the zoonotics thing it sounds like it is the departure from that and could you basically explain why you think it might work and likely to success? Well first of all this is early stage this is still pre-clinical.
And the PSA I think we will extend for the pioneer of highly tested about the same.
Maybe the difference here is that it’s biodegradable in our pre-clinical studies with the monkeys we showed a prolongation by a factor of more than two compared to ADVATE.
We’ve been wanting to see what it means in the clinic and what is the chances that you will go all the way I think you know the signs of biopharmaceuticals in the pre-clinical we believe that it has a lot of value but puts us in the studying in of clinical studies will show we can repeat the execute.
They went from back to maybe what is the most important thing here it is for us it is a belief towards and it’s not about extending the half-life it is about making sure that we have zero bleeds and you get zero bleed spot extra levels that are high enough constantly not from the peak and is from that perspective that our approach on gene therapy in hemophilia we believe could be disruptive and that’s why we want to be a leader in the technology as well.
Great.
So and my follow-up is just very tactical with regard to saying when I know there were regulatory issues that were out there how are they looking is it likely that this will be coming on line in 2015 kind of in a seamless way as planed? Well we are working with Sanquin on the question as much as we can.
As we also said the Sanquin volumes are not reflected in our 2014 numbers.
And we believe that the guidance that we gave on our ability to grow with the market 6% to 8% that will not be affected for the next couple of years irrespective of the ultimate Sanquin.
But we believe that we should be able to work with Sanquin to those questions in our next year most likely have that inputs.
Thanks so much.
And we have time for one more question.
Yes ma’am.
And our final question comes from Derrick Sung of Sanford Bernstein.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for fitting me in.
Just starting with a quick question here I wanted to – have you remind us of your expectations for SUPRANE generic competition and what is factored in your guidance for this year for that? Bob you want to take? Yeah we had a modest competitive impact put into our original guidance and given the latest information that we have we don’t expect much of an impact here.
So it’s largely competitive and out of our guidance here for Suprane.
But the delta between our original guidance and where we’re at today is around $10 million or so if not significant.
Okay great that’s very helpful.
And then my follow-up is for Ludwig on – on the long acting recombinant factor VIII market two things there one we’ve seen now phase III data from a number of the other competitors Nova as well as Bayer in addition talk to Biogens product.
Somewhat if you kind of get your reaction that we’ve seen more phase III data come in on just kind of what you think of the long acting competition maybe how that might relate to your product? And then secondly there one of the big questions I mean that’s out there is how pricing in the market might change with the entering of new competitors particularly competitors who currently don’t have a presence in the market and wanted to get your thoughts on that as well? I’ll respond with the pricing question which is going to be a short answer so I have no comments on that so no comments here.
With respect to your question on LA maybe a couple of observations.
The first one is we call them long acting factor VIII products mentioned it several times that we believe that these are not long acting these are extended half-life products.
The half-life is still shorter than one day shorter than RIXUBIS half-life and I would not call RIXUBIS a long acting product.
So that’s number one.
Number two is the – what the data shows consistently is that when we’re pushing to dosing regimen towards 5 or 7 days that the data consistently shows that ABRs the annual bleed rate increases.
And then we should ask ourself the question are we doing the right thing for the patient here.
Again this is a bleeding disorder with the objective of zero bleed and is not infusion disorder.
So my answer is that I do believe that we are on track with what we’re doing with 855 that it is based on the ADVATE molecule that is proven that is shown to be preventive that is shown to have consistent factor level data irrespective of the ADVATE that is being used.
And I believe that we have a very strong platform to work from.
So I really feel comfortable with 855 approach in addition to that as I mentioned I believe that gene therapy could be disruptive we are of course proof-of-concept in hemophilia B.
And with the new acquisition we are on the lead from the gene therapy perspective across the board broader than we.
So I’m really comfortable with our strategy the data as I said for 855 will get this done in second quarter.
Ludwig do you expect to this class of extended half-life products to expand prophylaxis used in hemophilia A and how much did that expand market growth? I would say that prophy penetration will increase irrespective of the extended half-life products.
We’ve seen this; we’ve seen a significant uptake since we launched ADVATE prophy.
We should know that all label shows up to three ADVATE 3 days and more than 50% of our patients are on 3 days or longer dosing regimen so irrespective of the entry extended half-life products I do believe that the prophy segments will increase over time.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on Baxter International’s website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Derrick Sung of Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is now opened.
Hi Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions and congratulations on a strong quarter.
I wanted to get right to kind of the key [controversies] [ph] surrounding the stock right now which is the sustainability of your hemophilia franchise.
You’ve raised hemophilia guidance for the back half of this year.
At the same time you are starting to see the competition now coming from the longer acting factor VIII.
Just wondering if you could kind of comment on is that hemophilia guidance raise coming from kind of the confidence in sustainability of your ADVATE franchise in the face of competition or is it coming more from some of these other growth drivers that you mentioned.
Just give us a little bit more color on how you’re thinking about that business moving forward? Thank you.
Bob and Ludwig you want to respond to Derrick’s questions.
Sure.
Hi Derrick this is Ludwig.
So overall we are very pleased with our hemophilia performance.
As Bob was saying we are increasing our sales guidance.
I think the confidence is coming from different angles.
First of all we feel that our ADVATE gold standard position is a strong position and that we believe that we will be able to continue to grow our ADVATE position through different factors.
In addition to that we have new products coming in we have RIXUBIS.
In addition to that the fiber prophy indication is also a strong growth driver.
In addition to that we have geographical expansion playing a role.
So overall we feel good about the guidance that we gave you and we believe it’s coming from different angles here.
Could you perhaps give us quantify a little bit more for us the opportunity from the recent OUS tender wins and the launches in Russia and Turkey of ADVATE as well as maybe Bob if you can give us a sense for how much Brazil is contributing this quarter? Sure Derrick.
The tender wins in Australia and the U.K.
we really will start ramping up activity here in the back half of 2014.
So relative to our expectations and we did have a good line of sight on one of those two to begin with so relative to our expectations not much of an incremental contribution here in 2014.
But as we move into ‘15 and beyond these are multi-year tender awards and I think position us to significantly increase our market share in the U.K.
where it had gotten down to below 10% at one point here and as you know we were completely out of the Australian market and now we have the preferred position.
So we’ve not specifically quantified that opportunity at this point but for both of them it will be a meaningful opportunity to grow internationally and a key franchise for us.
As it relates to Brazil as I’ve mentioned before we are going to experience some lumpiness here as we continue to ramp-up conversion and continue to open up the opportunity for different segments within Brazil and so again we are projecting more than $100 million of sales here.
The contribution in the second quarter was fairly modest.
We do expect that to ramp up throughout the course of the back-half of this year so more than half of that $100 million is going to happen in the back-half.
May be one final follow-up to Ludwig’s comments.
Ludwig can you may be just give us a little bit more detail now that the Biogen longer acting is in the market and that you’ve seen the label.
Could you just may be give us a little bit more detail on sort of your expectations for the impact from that versus what you were thinking before as you’ve seen the label and any additional color on the early progress of their launch and how you’re specifically detailing against that competition? Thank you.
Yes Derrick I think that their label is not much differentiated from the ADVATE label.
If you look at the ADVATE label it has very strong annual bleed rate data in there which is unsurpassed and which is still from a patient perspective the most important thing.
We also have individualized PK in our label.
We have every three day dosing in the label and when you look at the use of ADVATE our ADVATE prophy patients are on an every three day or longer dosing regimen already.
And so the data that we’ve shared with all of you are survey data that comes from patients and healthcare providers tells us that yes the interest of the community is there for a longer acting.
The definition of a longer acting for hemophilia A is one per week or longer dosing regimen.
So our expectation is the same as the guidance that we gave you and that is we expect a single digit impact on our ADVATE to market share till 855 comes on board.
Bob talked about the fact that we’ve completed the enrollment we completed all the assessments we are on track to share 855 data with you third quarter and we are still on track for a submission by the end of this year.
Yes hi good morning.
For Bob Hombach and then I have one for Bob Parkinson.
Just again I just want to want to make sure I’m understanding the cyclo updated guidance.
So are you saying now that you obviously haven’t seen any competition yet and now you’re thinking later in this year and on top of that I think you had been initially anticipating about a $0.25 impact.
Are you now saying it’s $0.20? Again I just want to make sure I’m getting that all correct.
We are now expecting competition to enter late Q3 to early Q4.
We had previously guided to a potential negative impact of $0.20 to $0.30 that we baked into our initial guidance and from that initial guidance we are saying that’s going to get a little bit more than $0.20 better.
So we are going to have improvements relative to our expectation around cyclo.
Our original expectation is a little more than $0.20.
Okay and then you mentioned the investments that you’re going to make against that so how do we sort of think about the net impact of all of this.
Well the net impact is as you know we didn’t change our overall guidance.
So I talked a little bit about a pretty significant ongoing currency head-wind that we’re incurring here of an incremental $0.10 to our expectation as well so that’s largely half of it.
The rest of it relates to incremental investments that we’re making and as you know we did a couple of business development deals here recently in gene therapy for haemophilia A as well as an acquisition for sickle cell anemia treatment.
Those are going to come with R&amp;D burns with them and so that is going to ramp up our R&amp;D spend.
That and a few other things about $50 million for the rest of this year and then we’re making internal investments to support numerous new product launches primarily in BioScience and SG&amp;A.
Those two make up the bulk of the difference between the $0.20 benefit from cyclo and the $0.10 downside related to FX.
Got you.
And then I guess for Bob and may be for Ludwig obviously post the Medtronic and Covidien deal and some of these other ones that are getting announced clearly scale is something that seems to be dramatic out there.
You guys obviously are going to innately get smaller with the spin off.
So I’m wonder if you could sort of discuss a little bit about how you guys think in the individual businesses the needs to get better and to get bigger and sort of perhaps the strategy behind that.
Let me make some may be some general comments for both businesses and then more specifically regarding new BAX and if Ludwig wants to comment on new bio going forward.
Stating the obvious we are consumed right now with activities associated with the spin.
So it’s not about -- at this stage thinking about getting bigger it’s about really moving forward to executive effectively the spin.
Of course one of the strategic motivations behind the decision itself was to increase the focus in both businesses.
I can tell you from the new BAX perspective if you will we feel there is significant opportunities to grow earnings at a faster rate than sales as a result of a number of things but one of which is to your question I think aggressively managing portfolio whether that’s business product geographic portfolio and so on and I think you can anticipate post-spin activity in that regards.
That also sets the stage then I think to be proactive in term the acquisitions and so on to kind of reshape if you will the portfolio that comprises the new Baxter going forward.
But again those are the things we’re evaluating right now but not spending a lot of time on given the focus of the energy slurries is really on the spin.
Ludwig I don’t know from a new bio perspective if you want to add anything to that.
I think probably it describes the intention of your organization right now as well.
Correct.
I think the question is not how do we bigger here.
I think the question is finding the right opportunity within the disease area that we are focusing on which is immunology and hematology oncology.
And I think the question can we make the difference in the patients’ life and how can we bring value.
Yes I think that’s a great summary in fact.
I think you said it’s not about getting bigger at this stages it’s about getting better and the spin and its heart was really about intensifying the focus in each of the businesses so that we can be better both from an innovation point of view as well as how we launch and commercialize our products and manage the portfolios in both business.
So the question of getting bigger is something we always think about but I would tell you right now it’s not really front burner.
Good morning.
Bob Hombach I just want to come back to the margins here for a second.
I understand the discretionary spending in the back half of the year but it’s released the second quarter.
Were some of these discretionary spending items present in the second quarter because obviously we would expect a little more up-side here in the second quarter relative to our expectations given the very strong revenue.
And then Bob some of the things you described are discretionary in nature in the back half of the year.
How much do those carry forward into next year because some of these you described are more base line spending on some of the new JV initiatives and some I imagine you can modulate pretty good heading into ’15.
So if you can give us a sense of whether these items are kind of ’14 discretionary or linger into ’15 and then I have a quick follow-up.
Okay.
Yes as it relates to second quarter there was a fairly significant impact of gross margins.
We did see some incremental SG&amp;A not so much in R&amp;D yet.
As I mentioned the two new acquisitions really are just going to start impacting BioScience from our R&amp;D run rate perspective in the second half of this year.
But from a gross margin perspective the impact was pretty significant in the second quarter primarily from FX and the driver there really is the euro and as you know as we’ve talked about in the past given our global footprint we have significant sales in Europe in the base Baxter business.
Gambro had more than 50% of their sales in Western Europe as well.
So that actually increased our exposure on the sales line which is a good thing.
But on the cost side historically we’ve been able to mute most of Euro fluctuations at the gross margin line through a combination of our manufacturing footprint and financial hedging that we do.
But as we’ve added Gambro into the mix Gambro actually has a disproportionate amount of their manufacturing footprint in Europe and so their cost relative to revenue was much higher in Europe.
So in fact the very strong Euro that we saw in the second quarter was a pretty meaningful negative to gross margin because sales were higher related to the FX translation.
But costs were even higher and so there’s pretty meaningful gross margin impact as we mentioned between that and Gambro a 250 basis point negative on gross margin.
So the lack of drop during the second quarter more is related to gross margin primarily FX and less to do with these incremental investments which again are primarily back half.
And then as it relates to discretionary clearly the R&amp;D run rate for those two acquisitions is going to be their going forward.
The SG&amp;A and new product launches those certainly can be modulated and that’s what we are doing now.
We do have a platter of new products to position in the market over the next six to 12 months and we are going to make sure we make the right investment there but we do have a bit more flexibility on that.
Okay helpful thanks Bob.
And then Bob Parkinson just as you think about the spin heading into next year obviously one of the biggest drivers of the medical products business will still be Gambro and then the broader Renal franchise.
So maybe you can give us an update here over the last six months.
Where do you think you stand as it relates to the organic growth profile you expected at Gambro? There’s capacity coming back on line and some of the cost opportunities that you saw.
How would you give us sort of a summation of where Gambro sits across some of those metrics? Thank You.
Sure Dave.
I would say first of all at a high level we are tracking very well with the original expectations.
More specifically in terms of the cost synergies again tracking just may be a little bit behind in the short term but longer term we feel that the target we communicated to you is more than achievable.
Encouraging earlier returns I think on commercial synergies.
So when you look at the size of the business in terms of revenue what’s becoming increasingly evident is the way to really monitor and this business is more broadly what we call Baxter Gambro Renal now because we are seeing in the market place the expectation that the full complement of products would lever the legacy Baxter businesses Peritoneal Dialysis and obviously home haemo going forward.
In fact if you look at our total Renal business revenue growth continues to perform very well and so in that sense in terms of the revenue line we continue to be very optimistic that we will achieve if not exceed the original expectations.
Having said that on the legacy Gambro business we continue to focus on ramping up capacity specifically in the dialyzer area which is going to continue to be a challenge over the next year or two.
Simply stated there’s more demand right now than our ability to deliver.
You know some of the historical issues that the previous owners of Gambro were dealing with in that regard and so on.
But we are moving forward to expand capacity.
Our two primary dialyzer facilities in Hessiga Germany and Opelika Alabama and it’s just a matter of time before we get that capacity ramped up so that we can accelerate the growth of the dialyzer business.
The acute business in the hospital is growing very nicely and the monitor business we are pleased with how the monitor business is performing specifically some of the reliability improvements and so on.
So without getting more granular I would say again back where I stated at a high level things are tracking very nicely with our expectations.
Thank You.
Good Morning everybody.
I wanted to start with I think the announcement was it was yesterday and you highlighted it today on the call the initiation to the Phase III trials in an Etanercept.
May be you could just talk a little bit more about what you see the U.S.
regulatory pathway being for your biosimilar program and how we should sort of expect that to unfold over the next couple of years.
Hi David it’s Ludwig.
I think as you said its evolving and I don’t think everybody has the answers here.
But for us it’s critical that this is an opportunity to create access to these molecules.
We are building a portfolio.
We believe that a portfolio approach for us is critical so we are building this portfolio and at this moment we have three molecules; one vertigo here and then there’s two with Momenta.
I think there is an opportunity within the regulatory pathway to go for interchangeability.
Of course that’s going to depend on finalizing those regulations as well as what are the product characteristics.
So we believe that we are in a strong situation at least with one of the approaches that we have to shoot for interchangeability.
I think you’ve seen that some of those at least one of molecules is in Phase III.
The other molecules continue to advance in the development.
So stay tuned we’ll know more as we move forward here.
And David specifically related to Etanercept remember we have OUS rights in Europe and several markets outside the U.S.
so it’s not a product that we will have the rights for in the U.S.
Got it thank you.
And then just a follow-up may be to Bob Parkinson’s comment.
I think in response to one of the earlier questions about leverage in the business and you did reference the potential for the remaining Baxter International to generate revenue growth and earning with earning growth pacing at a faster rate.
Could you maybe just talk about the opportunity set there because one of the things that stands out to us at least when I look at your quarterly or annual filings is the extent its current medical product margin sits below peers and I assume we’ll see more in the From 10.
But maybe you sort of just preview for us some of the opportunities that exist there to close the gap in your mid products margin versus peers that has the potential to drive the outsized earnings growth for some period of time.
Sure David.
Well first of all kind of at a high level everybody focuses on the creating of the BioScience spin off at the new public company but I will tell you our mindset is we are creating two new companies here.
The spinoff of BioScience provides the legacy Baxter business which as you know I will run going forward.
I think an opportunity to reevaluate anything and everything that we do and I think that’s really healthy and that’s the mindset that we are embracing.
First of all I think intensifying focus on higher margin growth areas product categories like anesthesia parenteral nutrition certainly the BioSurgery business which while we’ve developed that market very nicely in the U.S.
it continuous to be very undeveloped in many markets outside the U.S.
Also infusion pumps.
With the approval of the SIGMA Spectrum a month or so ago and the anticipated launch later this year with that it’s going to put us in a position to play offence in infusion pumps for the first time really in many years.
If you look at the margin accretion opportunity over the next five years or so in the infusion pump business for us to regain the share that we lost over the years in the U.S.
due to the calling situation and then be able to expand outside the U.S.
there’s probably $0.30 $0.35 of EPS equivalent associated with margin accretion opportunities just in the infusion pump area.
So anesthesia nutrition infusion pump BioSurgery all higher margin areas will benefit from intensified focus and as I mentioned infusion pumps benefiting from now the ability to play offense with the recent approval.
I commented earlier then on the opportunities in terms of portfolio and I think that there is significant opportunities to evaluate.
As an example core businesses like IV’s.
In certain markets the IV business where we can bundle with the contract that includes the disposable sets the infusion pumps the secondary the mini bags the pre-mixes and so on continues to be a very attractive business from a return on investment.
In certain markets in IV’s where we’re contracting separately for IV’s these are largely international markets I think we really need to be more aggressive in terms of evaluating what is the sustainable value of these businesses and so that’s the kind of example from a portfolio geographic in that sense.
The kind of things that I think we will be much more proactive in.
I also think in terms of this new mindset and I’m challenging the organization to evaluative really new paradigms in a lot of different areas.
This recent IV shortage in the U.S.
I think has sensitized a lot of people to the value of these products; products that largely have been taken for granted historically which are essential to saving and sustaining lives and I described it as always the best deal in healthcare to be able of pay for half a liter or a liter of IV at lower price than a bottle of water at Seven-Eleven that kind of puts it in perspective and I think there’s opportunity there in terms of taking prices up and really getting value commensurate with the value that those products serve clinically and so on.
So I’ll stop there.
I would just tell you I’m very excited to really lead this new organization and I think focus on those areas for margin accretion that exists.
So this will be a subject we’ll talk a lot about in the coming months and certainly post-spin as we crystallize more specifically but there’s fertile ground here I believe to support my earlier comment about being able to drive earnings growth at a much faster rate than revenue growth in this new business.
Thank you for taking the questions.
First one Bob Hombach when you had the late March call to announce the separation it sounded like you still had a fair amount of work to do to put some numbers behind the separation costs.
Have you had any additional work done on what you think the dilution from the spin will be; meaning really for you guys will be all the incremental overhead that will have to be created and I think you said at that time you didn't expect any tax leakage.
So has there been any change there? Thanks.
Yes and no change on the view on tax leakage as I mentioned.
I think transactionally we as create legal entities and move assets and people in various countries around the world there may be small amount which will call out as separate special items but in terms of ongoing tax rate for the two businesses no change in prior view.
Nothing significant we see for either business here at this stage.
As it relates to synergy we’re certainly working diligently internally to estimate what gross synergies are going to be and then how we’re going to go about mitigating them how much before the spin occurs and how we will be able to get out the cost position over the first year or two.
Again we’re not seeing anything significant or different than what our consultants would say the benchmarks look like so nothing has popped up and no red flags from what I said before that I think we are largely going to be in line with the type of operational this synergy you’ve seen from other spin-offs.
I would say though that our international footprint which represents 60% of our sales on an annual basis we are very integrated it will be very complicated to separate the two businesses but I think as we create a new biopharmaceutical company in an international framework we’ll be able to do that in a fairly streamlined way.
So again there may be a little bit of extra dilution on day one related to international but nothing significant.
Okay.
And then can you give us an update on maybe – well it maybe two items.
One you haven't talked about recently the plans for the vaccine business.
Has there been any progress there? And then two we've got the [IQVU] (ph) panel coming up at the end of the month.
Can you set expectations for what we'll see that will be new in the panel pack and how you expect the language from the FDA to read in the panel pack? Thanks.
Bob you want to handle the vaccines and… Yes certainly.
As we mentioned earlier this year we did take the strategic decision to look at first a couple of development programs within R&amp;D particularly flu and our line program and see if those would be better served to be partnered or divested and we also were open potentially to our two inline vaccines to divesting those as well depending on the preference of the partner.
So we’ve gone through a process talked to a lot of different interested parties and that process is ongoing so not appropriate to comment further now.
We are very focused on optimizing the value of the overall vaccine portfolio and as we make progress we’ll certainly share that as appropriate so still working on it but nothing to update at the moment.
With respect to the [IQVU] (ph) panel scheduled for July 31 the team is getting ready for the interaction the dialogue.
No new questions.
It’s still the same as we discussed the four questions or the questions related to long term safety of the antibodies related to a pH20 and specifically neuronal development in fertility so nothing new there.
I’m very pleased that you will be able to see all our data and we believe that our data is clean and that we have a positive benefit risk but as you will be there most likely we’ll have a great dialogue with the FDA.
Thank you Ludwig.
Good morning Bob how are you doing? Hi.
Bigger picture first.
You're clearly investing heavily on the biosciences side pre-spin seemingly on the surface a little less though in medical devices although obviously Gambro is a big investment that you're integrating.
So definitely you're actively supplementing biopharma ahead of the spin.
Should we expect that Medical Product business development opportunities could come before the spin too or are you going to focus on that post-spin? And maybe just as part of that as long as I'm laying it all out here it sounds like you're interested in M&amp;A.
What areas are you likely to be thinking about? Something directly related to the existing business or broadening the scope of the post-spin med device company? Thanks.
Okay Rick thanks for the questions several things.
Yes I mean obviously when Gambro is the largest acquisition in the history of the company so that really expresses an investment I guess in the new batch but I think may be what is under appreciated is much is in the R&amp;D area.
The nature of the investments have been really in new systems; home hemodialysis the VIVIA system which we’re really excited about has been a five year investment.
Likewise the AMIA system which is our next generation home choice and so on.
So those don’t jump out in the way that our bio pharmaceutical investments do but we have been making meaningful investments in internal R&amp;A those being just a couple of examples.
Relative to business development activity going forward I mean we continue to be open to that despite as you say and we all know our primary focus is the spin.
I’m not suggesting we won’t do anything but if we do it will be of the smaller nature.
Longer term look we think there continue to be opportunities within the two core areas which are the treatment of end stage renal disease as well as the hospital channel.
With the movement of the BioSurgery business over to the new Baxter going forward very few companies can represent the breadth and diversity of products that are sold in the acute care hospital and so from an acquisition business development point of view going forward that will continue to be I think a major area of focus to further solidify the channel.
I’m not sure what percent of all healthcare dollars are either spent or driven through the acute care channel but it’s a very high percentage and as I say very few companies have a strong over presence in platform from a channel perspective there as we do.
So I think it’s fair to say at a very high level that will drive our business development including acquisition efforts going forward.
And Rick I would just point out that I did mention in my prepared comments that in addition to the SG&amp;A and R&amp;D investments we are making investments in operations within medical products.
We’re seeing very strong demand particularly in the U.S.
for IV’s and PD and we’re seeing the regulatory environment raising the bar on everything from production through logistics so there are incremental investments going in to that as well.
Right and just to follow up quickly on renal Bob Hombach as you said PD gains are very strong in the quarter up 15% in the U.S.
Is that kind of growth sustainable? May be help us understand that and help us understand a little bit more about the timing issues OUS.
I mean do they swing back positive in the second half? It didn’t happen in the second quarter but now they have happened.
I’m not sure I fully understood what was going on there.
Thank you.
Well let me Rick I’ll comment on kind of what I’ll call the market trends and then if Bob wants to add some color in terms of specifically the financial flow and so on he can do that.
It’s fair to say that globally not just the U.S.
but globally there is a movement in tumor treatment in the home okay whether that’s peritoneal dialysis or over time home hemodialysis and you see a number of countries Thailand being one Taiwan being another.
In the case of Thailand what they called PD first which says look as we provide access to treatment of in-stage renal disease the government policy is going to drive treatment in home.
There is this general feeling that its lower cost it certainly is greater convenience for patients and in some cases and we believe very strongly in terms of home hemodialysis we are going to be able to demonstrate advancing clinical outcomes in a terms in a meaning full way such as life expectancy and so on.
So when you see the same dynamics going on in the U.S.
and so in response to the first part of question Rick yes I think the strength that we’re seeing in the U.S.
market for PD clearly is going to continue.
I think it’s driven by kind of a rebalancing of the reimbursements so now there are economic incentives for the providers to be in PD and ways in the past there were not and then of course with our launch over time of a home hemodialysis I think it further accelerated to grow.
So simply stated in the U.S.
I think the strength you’re seeing is not a transient effect.
I think it’s a representation of some more longer-term environmental trends and give us confidence that that kind of growth is sustainable.
Bob you want to comment maybe more specifically on the numbers part of it.
Yes so as it relates to PD patients in the U.S.
I mean we’ve seen a pretty consistent trend over the last five or six quarters of high single digit low double digit PD patient growth.
So that demand is there with the harmonization around reimbursement.
We are certainly seeing a very strong move in the U.S.
in particular.
So I don’t think 15% necessarily is sustainable but certainly high single digit low double digit PD patient growth here in the near term is certainly a possibility.
And OUS given the mix of revenue that we get per patient in different markets whatever the renal sales number we are reporting you can be assured that the patient growth is probably a little faster for all the reasons that Bob just mentioned.
So we are globally seeing very strong PD patient growth but particularly in the U.S.
The other think that I would mentioned again from a macro perspective is that in many emerging markets and developing markets you have a lot of patients that aren’t even being treated today.
So it’s one of the reasons we made the investment in Gambro that we did.
This is a large market it’s going to continue to growth.
By virtue of the Gambro acquisition we have established a leadership position in this market augmented by the existing launch system new products such as VIVIA in the home and I think it’s a good bet that we made long term.
Yes last think I’ll add the second quarter is somewhat depressed because of the timing of our tender as we talked about in Q1 related to renal so I’d really look at year-to-date sales as being more indicative of the trend.
Yes good point.
Sam we have time for two more questions.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to check just with the respect to the spin-off at the time of the announcement you guys had commented that you do not anticipate being able to redomicile the BioScience businesses.
Is that still the case or have your thoughts changed at all? No change.
I mean certainly just as a function of a spin out.
That is not an opportunity to do a tax-free redomiciling.
So that’s not on the radar.
Okay.
And then just on the IG business can you comment just a little bit about what you’re seeing in terms of the dynamic between price and then the supply in the marketplace because it sounds like price has been a little less favorable than what it has been historically particularly within the U.S.
Yes I would say we’ve had very modest expectations on price in the U.S.
over the last couple of years and our longer range outlook assume that as well.
So I think that remains largely consistent.
We are looking forward to having enhanced supply here as we go forward.
We are able to support market growth here in ‘14 and ’15 with our current footprint and we continue to work with Sanguine to bring flexible capacity online which we expect in 2015 to be able to provide not only for the U.S.
potentially but certainly for Europe and other markets.
So we are pleased with where we are at from a capacity standpoint and the flexibility we are going to have going forward and again from a price perspective I think largely in-line with our expectations.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Ludwig one question for you.
Just to clarify you kind of framed the (inaudible) impact as kind of high single digits in the U.S.
I guess just to clarify is that high single-digit market share in the second half or is that average over the whole year or is that actually in fact a worldwide impact? The single digit market share impact is for the U.S.
and that is between now and the launch of 855.
Perfect that's great.
And Bob one of the things that just looking at the numbers and it's not a very insightful observation but when you look at the renal business it is so heavily ex-US.
So could you just broadly speak about the opportunities in the U.S.
now that Gambro is part of the fold? Yes.
Bruce some of this is consistent with my response earlier.
It was to Rick Wise’s question.
For the first time over the last year or so largely as a result of reimbursement changes and so on we are seeing really a boost to our PD business.
We look forward to that being augmented by the home HD launch but there is a lot of things that now for the first time in the U.S.
are actually driving consideration of treatment in the home whether that is PD or HD which is very exciting because frankly the U.S.
business as you know for us has been pretty lack luster over the last number of years but as has been demonstrated I think Bob Hombach cited some of the growth numbers for PD patients.
We are really seeing that business get re-energized and again as I commented in my response earlier to Rick we think that’s going to be sustainable.
Thanks so much we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Baxter International’s third quarter earnings conference call.
Your lines will remain in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer segment of today’s call (Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter’s permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Pam.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Q3 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Ludwig Hantson President BioScience; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today’s press release and our SEC filings for more detailed concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today’s call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter’s ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Jr.</strong> Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning and thank you all for calling in.
As you saw in this morning’s press release Baxter reported strong financial results for the third quarter which exceeded expectations.
Relative to our guidance which included vaccines adjusted earnings increased 9% to $1.35 per diluted share and worldwide sales advanced 13%.
Excluding foreign currency and Gambro from both periods global sales increase 6%.
I am very pleased with overall organic sales performance from ongoing operations as the third quarter represents the highest quarterly growth of this year.
This affords us the opportunity to increase investments and research and development and further enhance manufacturing and quality and operational excellence as we position our company for sustained success.
In recent months we’ve continued to make progress in strengthening the portfolio with new collaborations advancing the new product pipeline through the achievement of meaningful milestones and the organization remains engaged in working to separate Baxter into two leading global healthcare companies aimed at enhancing shareholder value over the long term.
For example within BioScience we are building on the strategic decision to expand our presence in the area of oncology leveraging the company’s heritage of success in developing new therapies that treat unmet medical needs for patients with rare diseases.
Not only has living Ludwig been building an experienced team of oncology leaders including senior clinical development business development and proven commercial executives but we also continue to see partnership opportunities to expand the pipeline.
You may recall that last month we signed an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Merrimack Pharmaceuticals for the development and commercialization of MM-398 an investigational drug candidate for the treatment of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer previously treated with the gemcitabine-based therapy.
As you know pancreatic cancer is a rare and deadly disease that’s difficult to diagnose and has limited treatment options.
Through this agreement BioScience gains exclusive commercialization rights for all potential indications of MM-398 outside the United States and Taiwan.
MM-398 has demonstrated robust survival results in a global Phase 3 trial that will be the basis for regulatory submissions outside the U.S.
beginning in 2015.
BioScience now has four oncology assets; MM-398 [inaudible] and BAX-069 with the potential for numerous indications for patients with hematologic and solid malignancies.
We look forward to discussing the progress of the oncology portfolio and advancement of the pipeline in the future.
The bioscience organization also continues to enhance its focus on specific disease areas centered on core areas of expertise in hematology immunology and through technology platforms like gene therapy and biosimilars.
It's for this reason that we elected to divest the commercial vaccines business including the NeisVac-C and FSME vaccines and during the third quarter announced a definitive agreement with Pfizer.
We're working to close this transaction in the fourth quarter and continue to explore strategic options including the potential for partnering or divesting the R&amp;D development programs focused on influenza and line disease.
In addition we've also achieved an array of significant pipeline milestones including the FDA approval of HYQVIA is the first subcutaneous immune globulant a transformational subcutaneous treatment for adult patients with primary immunodeficiency.
HYQVIA is the first subcutaneous immune globulant treatment approved with the dosing regimen requiring only one infusion per month and one injection site per fusion to deliver it full therapeutic dose while maintaining the same efficacy safety and tolerability profile in its currently marketed products.
Today many patients received IV infusions in a doctor’s office or infusion center and current subcutaneous treatments require weekly or bi-weekly treatment with multiple infusion sites per treatment.
We expect to launch HYQVIA in the United States next week and are evaluating regulatory requirements and initiation of additional clinical trials for new indications.
As a reminder the global market for primary immunodeficiency is approximately $2 billion and only approximately 35% of patients are treated subcutaneously providing a unique opportunity for HYQVIA as a differentiated therapy.
In addition in August Baxter released positive top line results from the Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial of BAX-855 an extended half-life recombinant Factor VIII treatment for hemophilia A based on ADVATE.
BAX-855 met its primary endpoint in the control and prevention of bleeding routine prophylaxis and peri-operative management for patients who are 12 years or older with patients in a twice weekly prophylaxis arm experiencing a 95% reduction in median annualized bleeding rates as compared to those in the on-demand arm.
In addition BAX-855 was also affected in treating bleeding episodes 96% of which were controlled with one or two infusions and approximately 40% of patients were bleed-free.
No patients developed inhibitors to BAX-855 and no treatment related serious adverse events including hypersensitivity were reported.
Our continuation and pediatric studies are progressing and we're planning to submit a biologics license application to the FDA before the end of 2014.
Also during the quarter Baxter received FDA approval of RIXUBIS for routine prophylactic treatment controlled and prevention of bleeding episodes and peri-operative management in children with hemophilia B.
We launched RIXUBIS in the U.S.
late last year for the adult population and are very pleased with its market acceptance.
Our application for adults and pediatric patients is currently under review in the European Union and we expect a regulatory decision later this year.
Within the medical products business recent highlights include an exclusive agreement with Rockwell Medical to commercialize their leading hemodialysis concentrate product line in the United States and in select overseas markets.
Hemodialysis concentrates help to clean a patient's blood and remove waste and extra fluid from the body.
This agreement enhances Baxter's comprehensive range of therapeutic options across home in center and hospital settings for patients with end stage renal disease.
And finally we recently announced the expansion plans at our state of the art manufacturing facility in OPELIKA Alabama to help address the growing global demand for dialyzers.
Baxter will invest nearly $300 million in the OPELIKA site and we expect to begin commercial production in 2016 augmenting several other recent capacity expansions for dialyzers across our footprint.
In addition to delivering solid financial results and accelerating innovation the organization is fully engaged in the process of separating Baxter into two leading global healthcare companies; one focused on developing and marketing innovative biopharmaceuticals and the other on life-saving medical products.
During the quarter as you know we formally unveiled Baxalta Incorporated as the name of the new publically traded biopharmaceutical company.
The name Baxalta celebrates and sustains our heritages as an innovator and legacy of leadership by incorporating the Baxter name and coupling it with Alta which derives from opus which is Latin for high or profound.
Upon completion of the separation Baxalta Inc.
will trade at the New York stock exchange under the symbol BXLP and Baxter International will continue trading on the New York stock exchange under the symbol BAX.
While the corporate headquarters of both companies will be located in Northern Illinois we recently announced that Baxalta is forming a new global innovation and research and development center in Cambridge Massachusetts.
This will position the new company to optimize R&amp;D productivity accelerate innovation by building on its robust pipeline in core areas of expertise strengthen and increase R&amp;D collaborations with partners in new and emerging biotech areas and enhanced patient care globally.
As many of you know we’ve now named our senior leadership teams for both companies and have established the international and commercial structures for both organizations.
We have elevated several senior leaders into new roles and have complemented our strong commercial and operational teams with some new talent including experienced professionals from leading biotech pharmaceutical and medical device companies.
Many of you have also asked about appointments within Investor Relations and today I am pleased to announce that Mary Kay Ladone after a 26 year career at Baxter will become Corporate Vice President of Investor Relations for Baxalta upon completion of the spin.
In the interim Mary Kay will continue in her current role and will be responsible for the ongoing Investor Relations efforts at Baxter.
In conjunction with Mary Kay’s appointment I am pleased to announce that Scott Bohaboy a senior level Finance Executive with eight years of experience at our company will become Baxter’s Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
During his tenure Scott has held several senior financial roles with Baxter including in corporate planning the U.S.
hospital business our Asia Pacific region and he currently serves as Vice President Finance for our international operations.
Scott also has previous experience in Investor Relations at two other companies earlier in his career.
In addition Clare Trachtman who many of you already know will be named Vice President Investor Relations for Baxter and will report directly to Scott.
Both Scott and Clare will continue in their current roles for the near future and will work closely with Mary Kay and her IR team as we transition into two separate companies in mid-2015.
In closing Baxter has an established history of executing successful spin-offs and we believe this separation provides two unique and compelling investment opportunities for shareholders.
Our decision underscores our commitment to ensuring our long-term strategic priorities remain aligned with shareholders’ best interest while we seek to improve our competitive position and performance enhance operational commercial and scientific effectiveness and create long-term value for patients’ heathcare providers’ and other key stakeholders.
As always I’d be happy to address any questions you may have with regards to the spin-off or other topics during the Q&amp;A and so with that I’ll now turn call over to Bob Hombach.
Bob please.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share in the third quarter advanced 9% to $1.35 which exceeded our previously issued guidance range of $1.28 to $1.32 per share.
This performance reflects strong sales growth as well as continued investments in research and development unplanned gains from equity investments totaling $0.03 per diluted share which will be reinvested in the business and adjusted income from discontinued operations of $26 million or $0.04 per diluted share.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP earnings of $0.86 per diluted share includes income from discontinued operations of $21 million or $0.04 per diluted share and after-tax special items totaling $273 million or $0.49 per diluted share primarily for intangible amortization and costs associated with upfront product development and milestone payments integration of the company’s acquisition of Gambro AB and Baxter’s planned separation.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to the financial outlook for 2014.
Please note that with a few exceptions for purposes of today’s discussion I will focus my comments on the adjusted P&amp;L line items as seen on page 10 of the press release which shows the reconciliation of adjusted and GAAP earnings and reflects the Vaccine franchise as a discontinued operation.
For reference we disclosed historical financial information for the vaccines franchise last week and have also posted the schedules to the Investor Relations page of Baxter’s website.
Starting with sales worldwide sales of approximately $4.2 billion advanced 13% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Excluding Gambro from both periods Baxter sales rose 5% on a reported basis or 6% on a constant currency basis reflecting an acceleration of organic growth versus the first half of the year.
You may recall that our sales guidance for the quarter included vaccine revenues which were expected to decline given the receipt of lower milestone payments versus last year.
When including vaccine revenues Baxter global sales grew 5% on a constant currency basis which is at the high end of our previously issued guidance range.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 7% and international sales excluding Gambro and foreign currency also increased 7%.
Sales from emerging markets which now represent almost 25% of total Baxter sales advanced nearly 20% given very strong performance in the BRIC markets driven by the timing of tenders.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales totaled approximately $1.7 billion and advanced 8% on both a reported and constant currency basis.
And despite a difficult comparison the U.S.
bio therapeutics franchise BioScience reported the highest quarterly growth in almost two years.
Within the product categories hemophilia sales of $942 million increased 11% on both reported and constant currency basis.
This is the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit ADVATE growth which continues to be driven by strong global demand as well as benefits from recent tender wins in the UK and Australia and conversion to recombinant therapy in Brazil where to-date we have converted approximately 40% of the estimated 10 000 hemophilia A patients and continue to expect to generate sales of more than $100 million in 2014.
In the U.S.
ADVATE growth was high single-digits supported by continued conversion to prophylactic treatment and very minimal loss of share to a new competitive entrant.
We are also benefiting from the launch of new products and indications.
RIXUBIS our treatment for hemophilia B patients was launched in the U.S.
late last year and we continue to be pleased with its uptake.
Our hemophilia performance also reflects robust demand and double-digit growth in FEIBA for the treatment of hemophilia patients with inhibitors.
As you may recall only 15% to 20% of inhibitor patients globally are treated prophylactically and with approvals of this new indication across multiple large geographies like the U.S.
Canada Australia and Japan.
We expect this to represent a significant growth opportunity for our hemophilia franchise over the long-term.
In biotherapeutics sales of $546 million improved sequentially due to enhanced product availability and we continue to see robust demand and stable market growth for our immunoglobulin and albumin therapies globally.
Sales growth for this product category was 3% in the quarter on a reported basis and grew 4% on a constant currency basis.
As mentioned on our last earnings call we expected an acceleration in international growth this quarter as we are building on our position in many foothold markets.
And we also expect the growth in the U.S.
to moderate due to tough comparisons created by supply availability and the easing of constraints beginning in the third quarter last year.
In addition we are being prudent in managing our global supply and inventory levels as we prepare for the upcoming HYQVIA launch which is expected next week.
And given the renewal of albumin licenses in China we are once again optimizing our geographic mix with albumin shipments into that large and growing market.
In BioSurgery sales totaled $185 million and increased 7%.
On a constant currency basis sales rose 6% driven by increased penetration for surgical sealants like TISSEEL and FLOSEAL.
In medical products global sales of more than $2.5 billion increased 17% on a reported basis and were up 18% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding Gambro medical product sales grew 4% on both reported and constant currency basis.
Within the product categories renal sales were approximately $1.1 billion which includes a contribution from Gambro of $391 million.
Recall that we closed the Gambro acquisition in September last year and recorded sales of $100 million.
Excluding Gambro from both periods renal sales of $664 million increased 3% or 4% on a constant currency basis.
Strong global PD growth of 7% was somewhat offset by the impact of the CRRT divestiture.
As mentioned last quarter PD patient gains remain strong particularly in the U.S.
where PD sales increased 12% for the quarter and the 13% year-to-date.
Given this very strong demand we are experiencing back orders and are expediting shipments as we remain committed to ensuring patients have interrupted access to their therapy.
We continue to produce PD solutions at maximum capacity are working to expand capacity to meet the growing demand and are beginning to source product from our facility in Castlebar Ireland through the much appreciated support of the FDA which granted a temporary import license.
Going forward we will continue to work with customers to carefully manage inventory and maintain continuity of care for our patients.
We are very appreciative of the close collaboration and great support we received from the agency in this regard.
Going forward we will continue to work with customers to carefully manage inventory and maintain continuity of care.
Within the fluid systems category sales of $827 million increased 4% on a reported basis and 5% on a constant currency basis.
Performance is driven by favorable demand and pricing for IV therapies.
As you may know to date we have not experienced any new competition for cyclophosphamide and we're updating our guidance for this new assumption.
For your reference sales of U.S.
cyclophosphamide in the third quarter were approximately $120 million and were lower than the prior year and sales on a year-to-date basis now total $345 million.
Specialty pharmaceuticals which includes our inhaled anesthetics and nutritional therapies posted sales of $386 million reflecting an increase of 4%.
Sales rose 3% on a constant currency basis driven primarily by mid-single digit growth of our anesthesia portfolio where we are increasing international penetration and low single digit growth for nutritional therapies.
Finally sales in bio pharma solutions which is our pharma partnering business totaled $256 million and increased 5% on reported basis or 3% on a constant currency basis.
Performance can be attributed primarily to strong pharmacy compounding revenues.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L gross margin in the quarter was 50.5% compared to 52.7% last year.
Positive mix from franchises within bioscience was primarily offset by the impact of foreign exchange and Gambro which collectively reduced the rate by approximately 130 basis points.
In addition the gross margin was impacted by product mix within medical products expedited freight for PD solutions and lower than expected production volumes as we continue to make investments to enhance our quality systems processes and operational excellence to meet evolving regulatory requirements.
SG&amp;A totaled $921 million and increased 13% with the Gambro acquisition accounting for the vast majority of the growth.
Excluding Gambro SG&amp;A increased 2% as leverage was derived from benefits associated with our business optimization initiatives.
This was partially offset by select investments in promotional and marketing initiatives for new product launches in bioscience and incremental customer freight and logistical expenses to support the strong demand for IV solutions.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $292 million increased 16% versus the prior year.
Excluding Gambro R&amp;D rose 8% driven by the addition of new R&amp;D programs in bioscience through acquisitions the acceleration of other programs in the areas of hematology oncology and immunology and investments in renal therapies aimed at improving patient outcomes across the continuum of care.
The operating margin in the quarter of 21.6% is lower than last year's operating margin of 23.8%.
Excluding Gambro the operating margin was 23.4% reflecting the impact of foreign exchange and incremental investments referenced earlier.
Interest expense was $31 million in the third quarter compared to $45 million last year.
As expected we benefited from debt maturities and a favorable change related to the mix of floating versus fixed interest rates.
Other income totaled $39 million and was driven primarily by the favorable foreign exchange impact on balance sheet positions and approximately $20 million or $0.03 per diluted share in unplanned equity gains related to investments in the Baxter Ventures fund.
The tax rate was 21.8% for the quarter in line with our expectations and as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share advanced 9% to $1.35.
Turning to cash flow on a year-to-date basis cash flow from operations totaled approximately $2.1 billion.
DSO ended the quarter at 55.9 days and excluding Gambro Baxter's DSO was 53 days lower than the prior year by more than two days.
Inventory turns of 2.2 are modestly higher than the prior period and lastly to-date we repurchased approximately 7 million shares for $500 million on a net basis 1.5 million shares for $200 million.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing our updated financial outlook.
For the full year we expect adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $4.86 to $4.89 per diluted share.
After adding the expected earnings contribution from the vaccine franchise of approximately $0.27 per diluted share this guidance is in line with our previously issued and disclosed range of $5.10 to $5.20 per diluted share.
In addition we have updated our assumptions for cyclophosphamide and do not expect any new competition before the end of the year.
While this has resulted in a transitory benefit it is offsetting incremental headwinds associated with foreign currency in the fourth quarter of approximately $0.04 per diluted share and other investments to enhance quality and operational effectiveness in the medical products business and additional investments in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D in BioScience.
Specifically by line item of the P&amp;L and starting with sales we now expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 11% to 12% which includes annual sales of more than $1.6 billion for Gambro.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales growth of approximately 10% to 11%.
Excluding Gambro we expect Baxter’s organic sales to grow approximately 4% on a constant currency basis.
For the full year we continue to expect gross margins for the company of approximately 50.5%.
This compares to the prior year gross margin of 51.7%.
In terms of expenses we now expect R&amp;D and SG&amp;A to grow in low to mid-teens for the full year.
We expect interest expense to total approximately $150 million and other income to total approximately $90 million for the full year.
We expect the tax rate of approximately 22% slightly higher than our original expectations as the vaccine franchise carry a very low tax rate and we expect a full year average share count of approximately 547 million shares which assumes approximately 300 million in net share repurchases.
From a cash flow perspective we continue expect to generate cash flow from operations of approximately $3.5 billion which excludes the cash cost associated with the spin-off of the biopharmaceuticals business.
We now expect capital expenditures of $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion which excludes pre-spin capital expenditures primarily in the area of information technologies.
Let me move to sales and expand on our assumptions for the two businesses in the major product categories.
Beginning with medical products on a constant currency basis including the contribution of Gambro we now expect sales growth of approximately 15% and excluding Gambro we expect sales for medical products to grow approximately 3%.
Specifically we continue to expect renal sales to grow approximately 40% we now expect Fluid Systems sales to grow approximately 4% as we assume no material impact from cyclophosphamide competition this year.
We continue to expect specialty pharmaceutical sales which includes our nutritional therapies and inhaled anesthetics to grow in the 3% to 5% range and we expect our biopharma solution sales to be flat for the full year.
For BioScience we are once again raising our guidance and now project sales growth excluding foreign currency of approximately 6%.
Our outlook includes strong growth in our global hemophilia franchise of approximately 8% fueled by underlying global demand for ADVATE conversion to recombinant therapy in Brazil new tender wins and continued benefits from new product launches including RIXUBIS and fiber prophylaxis.
For the biotherapeutics franchise we continue to expect growth of approximately 4% driven by increased demand and the contribution from the HYQVIA launch.
And finally for our BioSurgery business we continue to expect growth in low to mid-single digits.
As mentioned in our press release for the fourth quarter we expect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations excluding special items of $1.30 to $1.33 we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of approximately 3% and we expect reported sales to be flat to the prior year.
Before I open up the call for Q&amp;A let me take a moment to update you on some of the financial aspects of the spin.
First we expect to file our initial Form 10 for Baxalta before the end of this year which will include historical financial results on a GAAP basis for the years 2010 through 2013 and year-to-date results for 2014.
These financial statements will be prepared as if on a standalone basis and derive from Baxter’s consolidated financials and will include allocations of various costs previously held at Baxter corporate level.
I would highlight that these financial statements are inherently limited as costs associated with corporate overhead income taxes support services and interest expenses may not be indicative of future costs associated with running Baxalta as an independent standalone corporation.
We expect to file amendments to the Form-10 in 2015 results which will include 2014 and year-to-date 2015 financial results for Baxalta in addition to pro forma adjustments to reflect the impact of expected debt and interest expense and other associated agreements and transactions.
As we previously disclosed we are in the process of designing the two new organizations and at this point our rough estimate of initial dis-synergies including [stranded] cost is approximately 2% of total Baxter sales or more than $300 million.
About half of these costs will be incurred beginning in the second-half of 2015 and both companies will have the opportunity to reduce a meaningful portion of these costs over the next several years post spin.
In addition spin related costs incurred in the first-half of 2015 will be considered special items and will be excluded from our adjusted earnings.
Also as we continue to work through the details of our IT ownership and manufacturing footprint we have not uncovered any substantial issues from a tax perspective.
While we will finalizing the capital allocation strategies of each of the businesses in the coming months we expect that both will have strong balance sheet generate significant cash flow and have the flexibility to follow a disciplined capital allocation approach which balances reinvestment of business in CapEx R&amp;D and M&amp;A with returning value to shareholders in the form of dividend and share repurchases.
We look forward to sharing more information with you as we get closer to completing the spin.
While we continue to work through the complexity this process is unfolding in line with our expectations and we continue on track toward a mid-2015 completion.
This assumes the Form-10 registration statement is declared effective by the SEC and final approvals have been obtained including from our Board of Directors.
As we proceed towards the separation date we plan to host an investor conference in the second quarter of 2015 to introduce you to the new senior management teams and provide investors with more information regarding the strategies growth prospects and financial outlooks for each company.
We recognize that investors and analysts would like more information to help them model both companies separately and the intent of the conference is to help you establish a base line as each company will have a different financial profile after the separation.
We will also engage in a comprehensive Investor Relations effort including investor road shows for both companies with the respective senior management teams several weeks before the spin-off is completed.
Thanks.
And now I’d like to open-up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on Baxter International’s website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
I want to start with the hemophilia franchise and just taking a step back for a second at the last time you provided your long range plan I think you had talked about hemophilia as a 3 to 4% grower and you have caveated in there the potential for new competition which we are now starting to see.
Can you maybe just help us put into context the year-to-date growth that you have seen and the 8% guidance that you provided how much of that is a reflection of some benefits you are seeing this year versus the potential to see a substantially higher growth rate in that franchise than what you had initially targeted? Jr.</strong>  Well I’ll make a couple of comments and then maybe I’ll turn over to Ludwig to give you some more perspective on the dynamics we see in the hemophilia market.
You know the guidance we gave several years ago what was over a five year period and 3% to 4% growth clearly pre-competition we expected to grow faster than that and then with the impact of competition it would moderate over the timeframe.
You know clearly we have had a very strong 2014 to-date and given how things have played as we’ve discussed previously the overall competitive landscape has played out largely as we expected if not slightly better in terms of what others have been able to achieve with on label indication for an enhanced extended half-life product and so I think going forward we have the opportunity to certainly achieve that if not potentially exceed that long-term guidance but maybe I will turn over to Ludwig to add some color here on market dynamics.
Yes thanks for the question David.
So at this moment we are not changing our five year sales CAGR of 3% to 4% but as Bob was saying there is a probability for us to go beyond these numbers.
The numbers that I gave you or that we gave you couple of years ago clearly were probabilized for R&amp;D milestones.
As we are hitting our R&amp;D milestones it means that the likelihood that we are going to over achieve those numbers it’s greater and we do expect that in addition to ADVATE and continuous fiber growth and continued growth in emerging growth countries that our new product launches such as RIXUBIS [inaudible 855 recombinant [inaudible] will have an impact here on the five year plan.
Okay.
And maybe just to follow-up on the emerging markets more broadly the 20% FX neutral number that you gave I know you said there is strength in BRIC and timing of tenders so maybe you could just help us frame up those markets a little bit more broadly.
We’ve seen some disruption across the healthcare landscape there the past several quarters how confident are you on being able to sustain call the mid-teens type growth rate in those franchises on a go-forward basis?  Well the big one for us is clearly Brazil.
I think we have a strong plan in place the strategy is there.
As Bob was saying we have converted 4 000 out of the 10 000 hemophilia A patients so far.
Just to remind you this was a plasma market.
In addition to that it was an on-demand market.
So we are moving from plasma to recombinant.
In addition to that we are moving a lot of those patients from on-demand to pre-feed.
So we feel pretty good with the strategy that we have in Brazil.
So this is our biggest one.
But in addition to that we have opportunities in China where we’ve launched.
In addition to that we got approval for ADVATE in Russia as well as in Turkey where we are launching and outside of these emerging growth markets clearly the UK tender as well as the Australian tender will continue to help us moving forward.
Jr.</strong> And David across the entire business between medical products and BioScience as we said medical products about 25% of sales already in emerging markets very strong presence and with the renal franchise and the broad portfolio great opportunity to continue to grow there.
BioScience has only penetrated about 15% of sales in emerging markets and that’s really the opportunity here to continue to accelerate growth as Ludwig has laid out.
So we feel very good about our positioning in emerging markets and the ability there to sustain double-digit growth going forward.
Got it thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
There has been a lot of new job promotions and opportunities for people in the room so congratulations to all involved but just two quick questions.
The first one Bob Hombach for next year and I appreciate you gave us some good details relating to step up cost and but I wonder if you could help us understand a couple of things.
Is there sense of what the impact of FX could be for ‘15 given that cyclo competition has not happen yet this year how you are thinking about cyclo for next year or any other important dynamics we should be thinking about for ‘15 numbers? And then what do we actually going to hear from an investment perspective in January Bob? And then a quick follow-up.
Sure so starting with FX clearly very volatile timeframe here just within the last couple of weeks.
As we indicated we expect an incremental headwind of about $0.04 here in the fourth quarter and given where rates have been throughout the course of the year where -- there was a timeframe where things looked like they might be getting slightly better.
I think the fourth quarter I think would be fairly indicative of what we are likely to see if rates stay where they are at today on a run rate basis.
So yeah we are probably in the ‘15 there $0.20 range of a headwind if rates stay where they are at today for 2015 but again lot of volatility here and we’ll see where things are at as we get to January and give guidance.
For cyclophosphamide we continue with a very robust competitive intelligence effort to understand where things are at again we know there are seven or eight players who are awaiting approval.
We continue to hear that it’s likely to be in the not too distant future.
But you know again the specificity around that just isn’t great.
So I think as you get to January we will have a better sense but again we framed that it’s a $0.50 contributor to profit for Baxter and overtime we expect numerous entrants and the vast majority of that to go away with likely producing an impact in 2015.
But at this point no further clarity that we have got to give.
So and as it relates to what you are going to hear in January you know we continue to work through a number of things here.
But I think key assumptions like sales guidance I think we will be in very good position as we always give sales guidance for the franchises in the two businesses and in the process of doing that I think we will make very clear what our assumptions are on key value drivers like the hemophilia franchise like cyclophosphamide which will clearly have a very meaningful impact.
We will also be able to give you a sense of FX and pension and so on.
So while it may be a challenge to give a full P&amp;L level of detail we normally do for the full year given the mid-year split I think we will be able to give you a lot information to give you a good sense of where the profitability trends are heading for each of the two businesses but very clearly be able to give you sales guidance.
Okay very helpful.
And maybe a quick one for Bob Parkinson.
You know Bob one of the key catalysts that coming out as we think about the Baxter business the medical products business for next year and the year after is this dynamic of cost opportunity and some of the things you may be able to get after.
It’s not clear to us whether there is a true cost opportunity like an SG&amp;A opportunity in medical products or the opportunity you see is more from portfolio reshaping which could be very positive for gross margins over time.
So I think this is kind of shaping up as a kind of key investment debate.
So maybe help us understand how do you see the cost opportunity broadly defined in medical products? Jr.</strong>  Sure David.
So obviously as we get closer to the spin we will be in a position to be actually quite specific in terms of what are the elements that we believe are going to drive earnings for the new Bax if you will at a I believe meaningfully faster rate than top line revenue growth.
Cost structure is very much part of that but let me just take a minute maybe to comment on the other aspects or the other dimensions that we believe can drive margin improvement over time first and foremost we have been very specific in terms of the future synergies associated with Gambro both the margin drop through on commercial synergies as well as cost structure synergies which I will tell we are tracking very well through 2014 and that’s a material improvement overtime which will make a large contribution to the earnings growth of new Baxter if you will going forward.
Focus on mix shift of products so you know the re-launch of CIGMA if you will with the recent approval provides great opportunity to recapture margin.
I think I commented on this specifically in the last quarterly call but that’s a big opportunity to regain market share in the infusion pump business intensifying focus in areas that continue to be undeveloped markets on a global basis like biosurgery like parenteral nutrition and then of course the anesthesia franchise.
So there is mix shift effect toward higher growth higher margin products which also will contribute to accelerated bottom line growth.
Portfolio you mentioned that in your question David is also a big part of it and I tell you we will be very aggressive in evaluating the existing portfolio not only from a business and product point of view but from a geographic point of view.
There may be businesses that we want to stay in in certain markets but exit in other market and obviously to do that will provide fuel for adding to that portfolio through bolt-on acquisitions and so on.
And then cost structure clearly is an element I think once we are able to spit up the two new companies and we through that process obviously integrate all the corporate support functions in the two businesses and get a better line of sight I will tell you I think there is significant opportunity to fundamentally take up cost structure.
And then lastly new product introductions like [inaudible] or next generation CRRT Systems second generation infusion pump platform.
So that kind of frames the various dimensions that will continue to margin enhancement and growth again at a faster rate than revenue and as we get close to the spin we will be in a position to be much more specific including the aspect of cost structure on all those elements okay.
Right thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Miksic from Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Hi everybody thanks for taking the questions.
A couple of follow-ups just to drill down a little bit in to hemophilia U.S.
versus OUS I mean you obviously have very strong worldwide number and driven by -- but in the U.S.
just to understand how you're looking at the rest of the year.
I guess what are you assuming in terms of the ADVATE launch haven't seen much competition yet but are you still dialing in pressure in the back half that would be helpful color and one more follow-up? Well thanks for question Matt.
First of all we continue to expect solid growth across the hemophilia franchise both on the U.S.
side as well as the international side.
As far as the ADVATE U.S.
market share is concerned we gave you guidance that we expect a decline of high single digits in between the Biogen launch and the 855 launch.
So 855 continues to be on track you have seen the Phase 3 data.
We continue to move towards a BLA submission before the end of this year and as you saw Q3 sales data in the U.S.
ADVATE remained strong.
We grew by 8% and year-to-date we have a net patient gain versus previous year and this is on top of our continued prophy conversions.
So we believe that since the launch date approval about four months ago we have seen a very minimal share loss and we're also aware that several patients switched back to ADVATE over the last weeks.
And we realize that this data is still early but so far it’s aligned with our expectations.
And then one more same subject we talked about this before there in our checks I guess and conversations indicate increasing interest in sort of fine tuning the dosing for patients and aligned with your PK analysis and data that you put out of couple of years ago [My PK Fit] reaching the U.S.
can you walk through maybe the timeline and how much of a factor is that going to be as you look at the competitive landscape over the next year.
So one of our strategies is to continue to strengthen the ADVATE label.
So as you know we just launched the [BAXA 3] device [My PK Fit] is another opportunity for us to strengthen the label.
We got approval in Europe and we are launching in selective countries as we speak for U.S.
this is under regulatory review.
It’s a 510(k) submission.
The impact of that will be very limited this year.
This will be more a 2015 event.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Hopkins of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now opened.
Great thanks.
Can you hear me okay? Jr.</strong> Yeah we can Bob go ahead.
Great thanks.
Just a follow up on that ADVATE comment about anecdotally hearing that some patients are switching back can you just kind of develop that little bit more what are the circumstances behind that what's happened that they switched back and then I was just wondering if you could comment if your guidance that you gave last call that you don’t expect ADVATE share loss in the U.S.
of more than single digits if that still holds given what you are seeing.
Yes.
As I mentioned -- so thanks for the question Bob as I mentioned we expect that the ADVATE U.S.
market share will decline high single digits between the launch and the 855 launch so to be more specific on the 855 launch so submission before the end of this year.
So 855 hitting the market by the end of next year.
So that’s the timeframe.
Yes we have anecdotes we know of several patients who switched back for different reasons.
I am not going to talk more about why those patients switched back but we're really pleased with the fact that ADVATE is the gold standard and remains the gold standard in hemophilia.
So no change to that guidance? No change in the guidance.
Okay.
And then last question for me just very quickly on the back on the U.S.
plasma side I know you walked through the U.S.
result this quarter pretty fairly but I am just wondering was that number for the U.S.
business about as you expected or was that a little bit weaker? Well I think the most important thing here is that U.S.
demand for IG remains strong and is growing with the market which is double digit.
So that is the critical piece here and then Bob was talking about we had a major event last year as well as we are gearing up for the HYQVIA launch we want to make sure that space in the inventory for HYQVIA which we will be shipping next week.
And Bob the major event that Lu is referring is the fact that we were able to enhance our capacity situation and in Q3 begin shipments at an increased level so we had a difficult comp here in the third quarter.
Great that’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Just a couple of follow-ups to some of the earlier questions.
So one will we see the full data set on 855 at ASH that’s going to…? Well we have submitted to ASH the design and now we are submitting at the late breaking news so we don’t have a full yes yet so we will keep you posted.
Having said that I think we have disclosed the most critical information on the 855 study with all of you and again to repeat what the key messages were.
First of all we had great control of bleeding 95% of the bleeds were reduced; 40% of the patients were bleed free.
No inhibitors no cases of hypersensitivity and with the PK profile extension of 40% to 50% versus ADVATE.
So these were the key messages.
We will keep you posted if it will be an ASH event.
Okay and Ludwig while I’ve got you here on 826 can you just give us an update on when you think you will be in the humans with that? Our objective is by the end of next year that we will be in studies.
Okay.
Want to clarify just the commentary Bob Hombach on 2015 and expectations or set expectations around guidance so in January you’ll guide for revenues and you’ll gave some other items but you don’t actually gave EPS guidance for 2015 is that correct? Well we certainly will for the first half of the year but for the full year it becomes very tricky with the mid-year separation at the investor conference in early Q2 would be the timeframe I think when we would lay out the full year picture in more detail for both companies.
And that first half guidance you are saying you will exclude the dis-synergies that you will start to incur in the first half you’ll actually back those out? Well we do expect that to be fairly minor because we will time the adding the resources that creates a duplicative corporate overhead as and when we need to in order to be prepared and appropriately prepared on July 1.
So there will be some cost there but we don’t expect that aspect of it will be overly significant but we will call that out separately yes.
Okay last question for you and I will drop.
You reiterate your cash flow guidance for the year but I was looking at the cash flow statement looks like you are down 2% for the year your guidance is $3.5 billion which is close to up 10%.
So is that you are confident in the big fourth quarter in your cash flows? Yes if we look at things working capital was a bit below a bigger drain on cash flow here in the third quarter than last year receivables and payables in particular some of that just have to do with the timing of a strong sales quarter and when that occurred and when we are likely to collect that.
So yes there is a big fourth quarter here driven primarily by the timing on some of these working capital items.
Great thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Lawrence Keusch of Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</strong> To circle back on HYQVIA and I just want to get some further thoughts on the ability to line up the patients the care givers and the payers as you launch that product as well as see if you are willing to talk at all about price? And then for Bob Parkinson I am wondering if you can talk a little bit about the environment that you are seeing both in the U.S.
and overseas in the med products business J&amp;J obviously indicated that there was some slightly improvements in utilization just want to see what you guys are seeing? So with respect to HYQVIA we are really pleased with the approval and we’re gearing up as was mentioned.
We are planning to ship product next week and that’s on target.
When our goal for HYQVIA is to be the preferred and leading subcu treatment for PID and that should be supported by differentiation and we plan to expand HYQVIA into neurological indications in the coming year so beyond PID.
At this moment there is a broad market awareness there is high interest from physicians patients on HYQVIA and we are expecting accelerated sales in Q4.
Which respect to pricing we’re introducing HYQVIA to the PBMs and the payers as we speak.
Our pricing strategy is consistent with HYQVIA’s differentiated and unique value which is to provide subcu IG treatment that can be administered once a month.
A dose is equivalent to that of IV IG.
So with respect to the price consistent with Europe we will be launching at a price premium.
Inc.
</strong> I understand.
Can you say how much that might be? Jr.</strong> At this point Larry you know until we get things finalized and get some traction in the market place I think it’s premature to talk about that.
Okay.
Jr.</strong> Larry Bob Parkinson here in terms of hospital utilization I did see J&amp;J’s comments I guess our view would be pretty much in line with that.
Clearly hospital activity in developed markets around the world is not as dormant as it was a year ago.
So I would say there is a slight improvement there but falling far short of being robust.
I think I would distinguish that however from the emerging markets and allow the general economies of the emerging markets have been softer than anticipated.
In terms of dollar spin on healthcare these markets continue to dedicate more of their national budgets to healthcare.
So you got so many therapies and procedures that previously there was no access or limited access in undeveloped market.
So we do see a more robust growth underlying demand in emerging markets.
Inc.
</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to get a little bit better sense of exactly where some of the investment spending is taking place and to what extent just talking there I guess the underlying net income growth of the company if you were to take out the Gambro accretion for the share because it looks like next year just adding up some of the things that you had referenced with $0.50 for cyclo you have got separation added dis-synergy cost FX I assume pension may actually be a headwind next year.
It just seems that next year’s shaping up to be a challenging year potentially more of the decline in overall performance [inaudible] to the underlying business.
Sure sure.
Well again I think we are pleased with the strong organic top line growth of the underlying business that we’ve seen across some of the key franchise this year and good strong momentum there that we expect that to carry forward in to next year.
As we look at some of these high leverage variables it’s a little difficult sitting here in October to have a clear sense of where some of these are going to go.
As we mentioned cyclo but the longer this goes the more likely it is that not just one but multiple players will get approval in fairly short order which means that the market dynamic could change pretty dynamically and the impact could be accelerated.
So again we are looking at $0.50.
I don’t have a sense of how much of that would impact 2015 at this point but that will be a very high leverage variable depending upon when that occurs.
As I mentioned earlier FX at current rates would be around $0.15 to $0.20 headwind incrementally but again a lot of volatility there pension interest rates have moved dramatically in the last two or three weeks.
That has certainly become more of a potential headwind as we have gauged it previous every 25 basis points change in the discount rate amounts to about $20 million impact to the P&amp;L.
So we have seen about 75 basis points move here relative to where it was last year.
There are other factors that play into that including asset returns and so on so that’s not necessarily a one for one but thinking about that at the moment in the $50 million to $60 million potential headwind at this point at current interest rates would be where we will be at at the moment.
So stripping a lot of that out and if you look at Baxter today ex-FX in 2014 we are talking about operating income growth in high single digits here.
So I think the operating performance has been very good.
We are cautiously making incremental investment though in SG&amp;A to support multiple new product launches in BioScience that have already occurred and could occur going forward.
We have ramped up R&amp;D expense a bit as well through some of business development activity that we have done within bio that will continue into 2015 as well.
We did talk about some of the operational challenges largely driven by very strong demand in PD and IV solutions as well that are causing us some incremental headwinds here and some of that is likely to continue into next year.
I will gauge that in the fourth quarter as approximately a $0.03 headwind or around $20 million to $25 million of incremental impact that we are likely to see operationally within medical products.
So a lot of moving pieces here and a lot of volatility around a few of these factors.
So again a bit early to look at the picture for 2015 but I think the underlying business is actually performing pretty well.
What is the underlying business ex the contribution from Gambro from an earnings perspective? We talked about a 4% top-line growth and with some leverage in the P&amp;L.
So I would gauge it in the mid to high single digits today.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the cost you guys had mentioned with business optimization cost that offset spending on quality how should we just think about the quality spend and can you just remind me if you have any outstanding FDA warning letters or notable 483s? Jr.</strong> Yes Kristen Bob Parks maybe let me take that because most of that activity would be in the new vacs domain.
One of the challenges that we are managing through right now is a combination of one hand expanding capacity on both IVs and PD where we are experiencing unprecedented growth on PD in the United States and pretty robust demand for IVs while concurrently managing through some existing warning letters and ensuring that we continue to enhance our production standards.
I mean we are focusing on areas like particular container integrity and some of these areas that as we expand capacity we have to make sure that we maintain the focus on these other quality issues particularly in facilities that are older and facilities in most notably North Carolina where we have an outstanding warning letter.
So we want to balance expansion of capacity on one hand yet be very vigilant to ensure that we have acceptable -- meet acceptable quality standards and that’s really the area that we are investing.
And so we have added headcount there investment in terms of process modifications and so on while we are also expanding capacity.
In fact we are bringing on a new line in [North Co] to produce more PD solutions to assist us in managing through some of the short-term product shortages that we have that hopefully we will be able to manage through that through I would say the first quarter of 2015.
But we are sensitive to the existing warning letters and make sure we can bring those to a close at a time when we are expanding capacity.
I will tell you we have very constructive dialog going with the agency.
We actually had a regulatory meeting with them last week to talk about how we balance achieving systemic or systematic improvements really in quality and ensure that the supply issue is addressed.
You may recall a year ago the U.S.
market was in very short supply on IV solutions and here we are approaching flu season and we read about Ebola and all these other things.
So the agency is very sensitive as they should be as are we to supply.
It’s why we are encouraged that they stepped in and provided the kind of support they did to approve PD product to be manufactured in Castlebar Ireland to ship to the U.S.
to help address our issue.
So those are the things we are balancing and Bob kind of quantified the financial impact of that that will continue for a while but I think at a certain point we will certainly manage down those costs and get back to a more normalized level.
Okay.
Thank you.
We have time for two more questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bruce Nudell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Thanks for taking my question.
Ludwig there is just kind of a general anxiousness about the pace of change in the hemophilia A treatment optionality as it were.
The [two] molecule the bio specific antibody mimics the co factor behavior factor A could be subcu could be relatively long lasting good in inhibitor patients and relative low immunogenicity.
Could you just comment on molecules such as this and your long-term positioning of the company and give some assurance that Baxter has the options covered is it were? Yeah so well thanks for the Bruce.
We believe that we have a solid short-term and long-term strategy for our hemophilia franchise.
As you know we are building breadth and depth in our hemophilia portfolio and I think it’s also fair to say that we are doing better at hitting the R&amp;D milestones.
We continue to monitor the competitive landscape and we are aware of the technologies that you were mentioning the [inaudible] opportunity well the company is still in early clinical development and the clinical data is limited.
As a matter of fact one of our exploratory programs is in subcu technology and a couple of years we moved the subcu treatment into the clinic.
However we have to stop the program because of the lack of efficacy.
To go back to our strategy we believe we have a strong strategy.
First of all we continue to strengthen the ADVATE label we talked about [My PK Fits] as well as well as Baxter-3 we have strong Phase 3 data for 855 which we will be submitting by the end of this year.
We plan to bring 826 as well as our gene therapy program for hemophilia A into the clinic into the next 12 to 18 months and all of these are the programs that we have.
So 855 826 and gene therapy we believe are programs that are post proof-of-concept.
When you think about the ultimate goal of hemophilia treatment it is to have sustainable higher level of factor expression without peaks and troughs because you will induce -- you would see dramatic or spontaneous bleeds and the protection should be there irrespective of the patients activity level and we believe that gene therapy could be a true game changer.
And with respect to our progress in the technology we are really pleased with early clinical date in our hemophilia B program.
We see factor level expression in our patients that is sustained over a longer period of time and as I mentioned we are planning to bring this to the clinic in about a year from now.
And Bob my follow-up pertains to the U.S.
dialyzer opportunity you know there was a press release this quarter about enhancing your manufacturing capability.
Could you just scale that opportunity for us because I know Baxter is a little bit light on the share side how big is it is it something that should be considered as a major initiative for the new Baxter? Jr.</strong>  Yeah well that’s Bruce Bob Parkinson here so clearly expansion of dialyzer capacity is one of multiple drivers to the renal growth long-term as I think you know even before the acquisition Gambro was constrained on capacity on dialyzer.
Our share on dialyzers today is obviously disproportionately low so I think there is a significant opportunity there long-term.
We are encouraged by the recent performance of the Gambro business in the third quarter.
Our sales were up mid-single digits and we are starting to I think get focused and aligned after the integration.
So that will represent a step function in growth when that capacity comes on in 2016 but in the mean time we have done some other things with third party suppliers and so on which will allow us to increase the supply.
So right now the demand is exceeding our ability to supply.
We have some smaller interim expansions that should help that out in the short-term but it won’t be as material until the OPELIKA capacity comes on.
So that’s a significant opportunity and a significant driver for long-term renal growth for us.
And how big is the U.S.
market for dialyzers? Jr.</strong>  In terms of in dollars?  Yeah.
Yeah so just defining the Gambro businesses we acquired it the dialyzers represented about $500 million in sales for Gambro on a global basis but as Bob mentioned very underrepresented in the U.S.
market and through this OPELIKA expansion and the others that Bob mentioned we expect that over three to four years to increase capacity by 50%.
And so as we grow into that capacity this represents an opportunity to grow and grow share and grow up 50% off the $500 million base that we have got in the coming years.
So a fairly meaningful opportunity here but clearly given the very low monitor placements that Gambro had historically in the U.S.
and overall capacity constraints again very very small player at the moment.
Jr.</strong> Mary Kay can get back to you Bruce with the exact specific answer to your question.
I don’t know for the U.S.
market.
The reality is the production at OPELIKA will source global markets not just the U.S.
and the largest opportunity is outside the U.S.
for a number of reasons including obviously the concentration with Fresenius given their centers that they run and where they utilize their own dialyzers and so that’s a major segment of the U.S.
market that largely is off the table even when we get expanded capacity.
So this is really more of a global opportunity but we will get back to you with the specifics on that.
Thanks so much.
And our last question please.
Our last question comes from Glenn Novarro of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Two questions one for Ludwig and one for Bob Parkinson.
Ludwig outside the U.S.
the hemophilia franchise did very well and you called out Brazil and you called out some tenders.
I am curious about the tenders; I think those tenders are UK and Australia.
When you start on a new tender is there a channel fill and are the sales you see there one time or are these just remain sustainable at current levels into the fourth quarter of next year is there any way you can quantify what the tenders gave you in the third quarter? And then for Bob Parkinson some of the companies that have reported so far have talked about some softness in Europe.
I am wondering if you can comment on what you are seeing on the supply side of the business in Europe? Thank you.
Yes Glenn it’s Bob Hombach let me answer the financial aspects of the tenders and maybe Ludwig can make some comments about our somewhat unique position particularly in Australia.
So the UK and Australia represent very good opportunity for us.
We had very little share in the UK from the last tender and we are completely out of the Australian market.
And so I would frame these as about $50 million in incremental sales opportunity combined between the two.
We will realize about $20 million of that $50 million here in the back half of 2014 less than $10 million contribution in the third quarter ramping up a bit in the fourth and the other $30 million of that $50 million we’ll get in 2015 as we get up to scale.
I guess but the one thing I would add about Australia is our preferred position there in the tender gives us an opportunity to perhaps get disproportionate share of the overall Australian market which may allow us to go a bit above the $50 million overall that I mentioned.
Jr.</strong> Glenn repeat your question on the supply side Europe I wasn’t sure what you are getting out there if you could just maybe rephrase that? So if you look at some other companies that have reported so far this week they have talked about some softness in Europe so I was wondering what you are seeing if you can provide any commentary in Europe.
I know in 3Q you always getting to see some softness due to seasonality but I wonder if there is anything from an economic point of view that or whatever you are seeing that would create any softness in Europe at this point? Jr.</strong> Yes well I commented earlier on just hospital activity of developed markets versus emerging markets and distinguishing the two.
I would say Europe clearly Western Europe is the softest area globally and I think to a large degree that is directly correlated with the general economic condition Glenn.
So we see less robust demand in Europe for example than we do in the United States and I would project that given the broader macroeconomic environment that’s likely to continue.
So it’s really about market share to drive growth and so on as opposed to depend upon robust underlying hospital activity if you will.
Okay thank you.
Jr.</strong> Yes.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating and everyone have a wonderful day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thanks Sam.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our Q4 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Ludwig Hantson President BioScience; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
Before we get started let me remind you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning and thank you all for calling in.
2014 was a great year for our company and I'm very pleased with our achievements and progress we've made from a financial operational scientific and strategic perspective.
First we were successful in meeting or exceeding our financial objectives with accelerated growth in sales solid earnings and significant cash flow.
And we've consistently executed a disciplined capital allocation strategy that balances reinvestment in the business with returning value to shareholders in the form of increased dividends and share repurchases.
Positive momentum continues to build across the commercial franchises as we extend our global reach with the core portfolio enhance care with the introduction of several new products and position both businesses for sustained success.
We're balancing this with investments in commercial and operational excellence as well as manufacturing capacity to improve our competitive position and support the solid underlying fundamentals in future demand that we foresee for Baxter's products and therapies across the globe.
We're also transforming innovation and advancing the pipeline with the achievement of significant clinical and regulatory milestones while expanding the portfolio through acquisitions and collaborations.
And most notably in 2014 we reached a significant milestone in Baxter's history as we remain committed to driving long-term value for shareholders with the creation of 2 independent publicly traded companies in mid-2015 providing investors with 2 unique and compelling investment opportunities.
Before turning the call over to Bob Hombach for a discussion of the financial results and future outlook let me take just a few minutes to reflect on a number of the achievements from the past year.
First strong sales performance reflects our strategic focus on improving access and treatment standards broadening our global presence while investing to support future growth.
Baxter's worldwide revenues totaled $16.7 billion in 2014 advancing 11% or 5% excluding Gambro and foreign exchange.
International sales representing nearly 60% of Baxter's total revenues were augmented by significant growth in emerging markets with sales in the BRIC countries advancing by more than 15%.
Continued emerging market penetration represents a significant opportunity for both businesses going forward as many products and therapies remain underpenetrated diagnosed or treated.
For example in Medical Products we continue to drive global penetration for higher-margin specialty products including those from BioSurgery and nutrition franchises with the expanded launches of FLOSEAL in Japan HEMOPATCH in Europe and our proprietary triple-chamber nutritional containers in several new markets like China Brazil Australia and France.
To address strong demand across our hospital products and renal portfolio we announced plans to invest approximately $600 million to expand capacity and enhance production capabilities in several key markets and product areas representing some of the greatest opportunities for future growth.
These include investments in Asia and at our North Carolina facility to support production of peritoneal dialysis and intravenous solutions.
We're also executing on expansion plans at our state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Opelika Alabama to meet the growing global demand for dialyzers.
In addition we've successfully executed on the integration of Gambro achieving the commercial and cost benefits that we anticipated and further extending our global reach with a comprehensive renal therapies portfolio.
In BioScience we're building upon our global leadership position in hemophilia as evidenced by our strong double-digit revenue growth for 2014.
Highlights for this franchise include: supporting rising standards of care for approximately 100 000 patients more than 1/4 of the world's hemophilia A patients in key markets like the U.K.
Australia Brazil Russia and China with recent product approvals launches and multiyear tender awards.
Second driving personalized care with the launch of BAXJECT III reconstitution system and myPKFit in Europe Canada and Japan.
And thirdly the European regulatory approval of a new manufacturing facility in Singapore for the production of recombinant proteins including ADVATE and eventually BAX 855.
Within our BioTherapeutics franchise we remain committed to meeting patient needs by enhancing our plasma manufacturing footprint in a flexible and cost-efficient manner.
We've increased capacity at our Los Angeles and Vienna Austria plasma fractionation facilities.
We're investing in a new state-of-the-art facility in Covington Georgia and we're making progress with the Sanquin collaboration.
These efforts have led to improved growth throughout 2014 capping the year off with strong double-digit growth for this franchise during the fourth quarter.
As you know we've significantly ramped up R&amp;D over the last several years and are now beginning to realize the benefits.
In 2014 the company received regulatory approval for almost a dozen new products and therapies.
We also announced an array of significant pipeline achievements and advanced many of our R&amp;D collaborations with partners.
In Medical Products we obtained 510(k) clearance for the next-generation SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump in the United States and further advanced development of AMIA and HomeChoice Claria our latest automated PD systems for the U.S.
and European markets.
In BioScience we received FDA approval of several key therapies including HYQVIA which we launched in the United States in the fourth quarter.
HYQVIA is a transformational subcutaneous treatment for adult patients with primary immunodeficiency.
Our launch is progressing well with more than 400 physicians currently prescribing the therapy.
We were granted FDA approval for OBIZUR a treatment for patients with acquired hemophilia A a very rare and potentially life-threatening acute bleeding disorder as well as the pediatric indication for RIXUBIS for the treatment of hemophilia B.
In addition we recently received European approval for RIXUBIS for both pediatric and adult patients.
During 2014 we achieved several regulatory milestones including positive top line results from the Phase III pivotal clinical trial of BAX 855 an extended half-life recombinant Factor VIII treatment for hemophilia A based on ADVATE.
We also met the primary efficacy endpoint in the Phase III study of BAX 111 the first standalone recombinant treatment for von Willebrand disease.
And late last year we successfully completed the FDA regulatory submissions for both BAX 855 and BAX 111 with approvals expected later in 2015.
In addition to our internal R&amp;D accomplishments we're collaborating with partners to advance R&amp;D programs in new disease areas which capitalize on our core technical capabilities expertise and global channel.
These collaborations include the partnership with Coherus Biosciences and the initiation of 2 Phase III trials for an investigational etanercept biosimilar in rheumatoid arthritis and chronic plaque psoriasis and advancement of pivotal trials for pacritinib with our partner CTI BioPharma.
Pacritinib is a novel oral JAK2/FLT3 inhibitor for patients with myelofibrosis a chronic malignant bone marrow disorder and we expect clinical trials results for PERSIST-1 later in the first quarter of 2015.
In 2014 we augmented internal development programs with select acquisitions and new collaborations.
Within Medical Products we entered an exclusive agreement with Rockwell Medical for their leading hemodialysis concentrates in select markets which enhances Baxter's comprehensive range of therapeutic options across home in-center and hospital settings for patients with end-stage renal disease.
And earlier this year we acquired ICNet a global leader in surveillance and case management software used in hospitals which builds on Baxter's unique expertise at hospital pharmacy operations.
In BioScience the organization continues to enhance its focus on specific disease areas centered on its expertise in hematology oncology and immunology as well as through technology platforms including gene therapy and biosimilars.
During 2014 we bolstered the portfolio with acquisitions like AesRx and Chatham Therapeutics and extended our collaboration with Xenetic Biosciences.
The AesRx acquisition expands our reach in hematology with BAX 555 an investigational oral prophylactic treatment being evaluated in a Phase II clinical trial for patients with sickle cell anemia.
With Chatham Therapeutics' acquisition we obtained their development gene therapy preclinical hemophilia A and ongoing hemophilia B program which is currently in a Phase I/II trial.
This approach has the potential to redefine the concept of longer-acting therapy and we plan this year additional data on this program at the European Association for Hemophilia and Allied Disorders in Helsinki in February.
The exclusive agreement with Xenetic Biosciences is a partnership for the development of BAX 826 an extended half-life recombinant Factor VIII therapy for hemophilia A.
BAX 826 is currently in preclinical development as a treatment that may be administered less frequently potentially at once-weekly intervals without compromising efficacy.
Also in BioScience we're building on the strategic decision to expand our presence in the area of hematology/oncology leveraging our heritage of success in developing new therapies that treat unmet medical needs for patients with rare diseases.
We now have several oncology assets including our most advanced asset MM-398 for pancreatic cancer which will be submitted for approval in markets outside the U.S.
and Taiwan in 2015 as well as pacritinib mentioned earlier.
Each of these new therapies offers the potential for numerous additional indications for patients with a variety of hematologic and solid malignancies.
In summary our core portfolio remains strong and we continue to benefit from our focus on life-saving therapies along with strong global channels that provide a platform for ongoing geographic expansion and growth.
We're investing for the future to enhance our commercial operational and scientific effectiveness.
Our pipeline remains robust and we've accelerated the pace of business development with opportunities that are aligned with our core strengths.
And we're committed to overcoming the challenges presented by the external economic environment while enhancing value through improved performance and execution.
So with that let me now turn the call over to Bob Hombach for a discussion on our 2014 financial results and outlook.
And when Bob concludes his commentary I'll provide an update on the spinoff of our biopharmaceuticals business before opening up the call for Q&amp;A.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations increased 2% in the fourth quarter to $1.34 which exceeded our previously issued guidance range of $1.30 to $1.33 per share.
These results reflect strong revenue growth across several key franchises and continued investments in operations and research and development.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP earnings of $1.74 per diluted share reflects both earnings and an after-tax gain from the recently divested vaccines franchise totaling $429 million or $0.78 per diluted share.
In addition our GAAP results reflect after-tax special items totaling $209 million or $0.38 per diluted share for intangible amortization costs associated with business development and contingent milestone payments integration of the company's acquisition of Gambro AB and Baxter's planned separation.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to the financial outlook for 2015.
Starting with sales.
Worldwide sales of approximately $4.5 billion advanced 3% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 7% reflecting a sequential improvement in growth over the last 4 quarters from an organic perspective.
This growth also favorably compares to our guidance for the quarter of approximately 3%.
Each product category contributed to the overachievement with particular strength coming from the hemophilia franchise driven by ADVATE and FEIBA and strong U.S.
performance across the Medical Products portfolio.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 6% and international sales excluding foreign currency increased 7%.
As Bob mentioned sales in emerging markets were strong advancing by more than 15% in the quarter with robust growth in the BRIC markets driven by hemophilia sales in Brazil and the timing of tenders as expected.
For the full year worldwide sales of nearly $16.7 billion advanced 11% on a reported basis or 13% on a constant currency basis.
Baxter's sales for the full year increased 5% on a constant currency basis when excluding Gambro revenues from both periods.
Gambro sales were $1.6 billion in 2014 compared to $513 million in 2013.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales totaled approximately $1.9 billion in the quarter and advanced 9% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis BioScience sales increased 12% reflecting the highest quarterly growth in the last 5 years.
For the full year global BioScience sales advanced 7% to $6.7 billion.
After adjusting for foreign currency sales grew 8% significantly exceeding our original expectation of sales growth in the 3% to 4% range for 2014.
Within the product category hemophilia sales in the fourth quarter of approximately $1.1 billion increased 9% on a reported basis and excluding foreign currency sales advanced 13%.
While sales in the U.S.
were strong up 8% international sales grew 16% on a constant currency basis.
As mentioned in Bob's opening remarks international penetration remains a significant opportunity for our company as hemophilia is a disease that remains tremendously underdiagnosed and undertreated around the world.
As the established global leader Baxter today derives approximately 60% of total hemophilia sales from outside the U.S.
in more than 60 countries worldwide.
In addition in the quarter we achieved a record level of ADVATE sales with a fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.
This was the result of strong global demand prophy conversions benefits from recent tender wins in the U.K.
and Australia and conversion to recombinant therapy in Brazil.
For the year sales in Brazil totaled more than $100 million in line with our expectations and to date we have converted approximately 40% of the estimated 10 000 hemophilia A patients in the country.
In the U.S.
where we face new competition our recombinant Factor VIII sales outpaced market growth.
In fact for 2014 we've enhanced our overall Factor VIII unit share position despite a more competitive environment and modest patient losses.
We were also pleased that growth in our hemophilia franchise was further augmented by the launch of several new products and indications including double-digit growth of FEIBA for the treatment of hemophilia patients with inhibitors as well as contribution from RIXUBIS a Factor IX treatment for hemophilia B patients and the recent launch of OBIZUR for acquired hemophilia.
In BioTherapeutics sales of $628 million increased 11% on a reported basis.
Sales increased 14% on a constant currency basis driven by robust demand particularly for immunoglobulin therapies and albumin.
Throughout 2014 we enhanced our overall supply of plasma therapies as we successfully executed to increase capacity across our manufacturing network.
We are now in a position to support ongoing growth in demand of at least 8% going forward.
A significant achievement in the fourth quarter was the launch of HYQVIA in the U.S.
This is a transformational therapy with an attractive value proposition for patients physicians and payers.
For 2014 Baxter successfully increased global subQ penetration including U.S.
HYQVIA sales in the fourth quarter of $35 million which primarily reflects the impact of initial stocking orders by customers and the favorable reception of the product in the marketplace.
In BioSurgery sales of $197 million grew 2%.
On a constant currency basis sales rose 4% driven by increased penetration of surgical sealants despite modest growth in surgical procedures and some competitive pricing pressures.
As you may recall the BioSurgery business will be reported in the Medical Products business going forward.
In Medical Products global sales of approximately $2.6 billion were comparable to the prior year and on a constant currency basis sales increased 3%.
For the full year Medical Products sales rose 15% to approximately $10 million and on a constant currency basis the sales growth was 16%.
After adjusting for Gambro in both periods Medical Products sales in 2014 increased 4% on a constant currency basis.
Within the product categories Renal sales in the quarter were approximately $1.1 billion reflecting a decline of 2% on a reported basis.
Excluding foreign currency sales grew 3% driven by solid PD patient gains in the U.S.
and emerging markets and improved performance from the Gambro HD business.
For the year Gambro sales were in line with our expectations and exceeded $1.6 billion an increase of approximately 2% on an organic basis.
While sales in the first half of 2014 were comparable to the prior year we are encouraged with the acceleration of sales to mid-single digits in the second half of 2014 driven primarily by mid-teens growth of the acute care business and improved dialyzer sales.
Within the Fluid Systems category sales of $822 million were comparable to the prior year period and on a constant currency basis sales grew 2%.
Performance was driven by favorable demand for IV therapies as well as increased sales of cyclophosphamide which collectively more than offset lower sales of infusion pumps.
As you may know a new competitor recently entered the U.S.
market for cyclophosphamide and we continue to expect additional competitors in the coming months.
For your reference full year 2014 U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales totaled approximately $450 million.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals which includes our inhaled anesthetics and nutritional therapies posted sales of $417 million in the quarter reflecting an increase of 2%.
Sales rose 6% on a constant currency basis as we continue to penetrate international markets with our higher-margin anesthesia portfolio and achieve strong growth in our U.S.
nutrition business with improved sales of vitamins and lipids which were constrained last year.
Finally sales in BioPharma Solutions which is our pharma partnering business totaled $271 million increasing 1% on a reported basis or 4% on a constant currency basis.
Performance can be attributed primarily to increased demand from our contract manufacturing partners and strong hospital pharmacy compounding revenues.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin in the quarter was 50.3% compared to 50.4% last year.
Positive mix in BioScience and select pricing improvements across the portfolio were more than offset by the impact of foreign currency as well as expedited freight for PD solutions ongoing manufacturing inefficiencies and investments we are making to enhance operational capabilities and advance our quality systems and processes.
For the full year the gross margin of 50.4% was in line with our guidance.
SG&amp;A totaled $970 million and increased 4% driven by planned investments and promotional and marketing initiatives for new product launches in BioScience and incremental customer freight and logistical expenses to support the strong demand for IV solutions.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $305 million increased 6% versus the prior year driven by the addition of new R&amp;D programs in BioScience through acquisitions the acceleration of other programs in the areas of hematology oncology and immunology and investments in renal therapies aimed at improving patient outcomes across the continuum of care.
Interest expense was $29 million in the fourth quarter compared to $41 million last year as we benefited from recent debt maturities and income generated from a change in the mix of floating versus fixed interest rates.
Other expense totaled $25 million and was driven by the negative impact of foreign exchange on balance sheet positions.
The tax rate was 20.5% for the quarter bringing the full year tax rate to 21.7% in line with our expectations.
And as previously mentioned adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations increased 2% to $1.34 and for the full year 2014 earnings per diluted share of $4.90 exceeded our guidance range.
Turning to cash flow.
For 2014 cash flow from operations was very strong and totaled more than $3.2 billion.
Excluding cash costs associated with the spinoff of the biopharmaceutical business we generated $3.3 billion in cash flow from operations.
Capital expenditures totaled $1.9 billion for the year reflecting investments in manufacturing capacity to support future demand and growth across the portfolio.
DSO ended the quarter at 52 days and excluding Gambro Baxter's DSO was 50 days lower than the prior year by more than 2 days.
Inventory turns of 2.4 are lower than the prior year period by 0.3 days driven by the impact of new product launches and enhanced inventories in our plasma business.
And lastly in 2014 the company repurchased approximately 7.8 million shares for $550 million or on a net basis 1.3 million shares for $206 million.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing some information on the financial outlook and assumptions affecting our performance in 2015.
As I've previously mentioned given the complexities of a midyear spend we are not in a position today to provide full year guidance for Baxter and Baxalta.
As we move into the second quarter of 2015 Baxter will likely begin reporting Baxalta as a discontinued operation and at our investor conferences in May each company will provide additional information on their financial profile and outlook.
Today we will provide investors with some relevant information on several key discrete challenges we expect to face in 2015.
First given significant volatility in foreign currency rates particularly in emerging markets and more recently the euro we expect a full year impact of approximately $0.40 per diluted share related to foreign exchange.
Given the timing of currency movements the impact of our hedging strategy and our geographic mix the majority of this impact is expected to occur in the second half of 2015.
Second with interest rates much lower as we exited 2014 pension expense will be a headwind of approximately $0.10 per diluted share for the year.
Third given the assumption that we will experience additional competition for cyclophosphamide throughout 2015 we are assuming a full year impact of approximately $0.40 per diluted share.
And lastly as previously mentioned we are incurring additional costs that reflect manufacturing inefficiencies and investments to enhance operational capabilities creating an additional headwind in the first quarter of approximately $0.10 per diluted share.
As we move into the second half of 2015 we expect these costs to stabilize as we begin to anniversary these impacts.
Let me take a few moments to provide full year sales guidance for the 2 businesses and the major product categories for 2015.
Recall that given the spin we have taken the opportunity to step back and look at our organizational structure to ensure that we're best positioned to successfully operate 2 standalone companies.
Therefore we are moving to a new reporting configuration that is aligned with the respected internal organizations and are providing guidance in this new format this morning.
For your convenience we posted the historical restated sales including 2014 by quarter to the Investor Relations section of our website.
Beginning with the new Baxter franchises on a constant currency basis we expect sales to be comparable to 2014.
Excluding cyclophosphamide in both years underlying growth will be approximately 3%.
Specifically we expect sales in our Renal franchise which includes our leading peritoneal and hemodialysis products to grow in the 4% to 5% range.
We expect Fluid Systems sales to grow in the 2% to 3% range.
This franchise includes our IV therapies infusion pumps and associated disposables.
We expect sales of our Surgical Care franchise to grow in the 4% to 5% range.
This franchise includes anesthesia and BioSurgery products.
We expect the Integrated Pharmacy Solutions sales to decline approximately 10%.
This franchise includes injectable drugs like cyclophosphamide as well as our nutritional therapies and hospital pharmacy compounding business.
Excluding the impact of cyclophosphamide of approximately $300 million growth is expected to be in the low single digits.
And finally we expect the other category to decline approximately 15%.
This category primarily includes our third-party manufacturing business which will be impacted by a major customer electing to self-manufacture products previously manufactured by Baxter.
For Baxalta we project sales growth excluding foreign currency of approximately 3% to 4%.
Our outlook includes growth in the hemophilia franchise of 0% to 2%.
This includes sales of our recombinant and plasma-derived hemophilia therapies including ADVATE RIXUBIS and other treatments for Factor VIII and Factor IX deficiencies.
Growth will be fueled by new product launches and strong international demand which will be somewhat offset by anticipated high single-digit share loss in the U.S.
due to increased competition.
We expect growth in the inhibitors category to be in the 6% to 8% range driven by further penetration and growth of FEIBA for the treatment of inhibitors and the launch of OBIZUR for the treatment of acquired hemophilia.
For immunoglobulin therapies which includes our antibody replacement treatments we expect growth of 6% to 8% driven by strong market demand and the contribution from HYQVIA.
And finally for BioTherapeutics which includes plasma-derived therapies like albumin and treatments for alpha-1 deficiencies among others we expect to grow in the 2% to 4% range.
Now turning to the first quarter.
We expect adjusted earnings excluding special items of $0.85 to $0.90 per diluted share reflecting the headwinds just mentioned.
It is important to note however that this guidance does not reflect any incremental cost or dis-synergies associated with the spinoff of the biopharmaceutical business as these costs will begin to be layered in throughout the second quarter.
Now in terms of the P&amp;L by line item we expect first quarter sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency of 2% to 3%.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to decline 3% to 4%.
By business on a constant currency basis we expect Medical Products sales growth of 1% to 2% and BioScience sales to grow 4% to 5%.
In the first quarter we expect gross margin for the company to decline by approximately 250 to 300 basis points versus the fourth quarter of last year of 50.4%.
This reflects the impact of increased manufacturing costs which are most pronounced in the first quarter as well as the impact of cyclophosphamide and pension expense.
We expect SG&amp;A to decline by approximately 5% versus the prior year and R&amp;D to be flat on a reported basis.
Excluding foreign currency impacts both SG&amp;A and R&amp;D are expected to grow in low single digits.
And finally for the first quarter we expect interest expense to total approximately $35 million no impact from other income versus gains we recorded in the prior year and we expect a tax rate of approximately 22% with an average share count of approximately 547 million shares.
This concludes my prepared remarks this morning.
We look forward to providing more financial information to you in the near future.
In the meantime I'd now like to turn the call over to Bob for his closing comments.
Thanks Bob.
Let me end our prepared comments this morning with a brief update on the anticipated spinoff of our biopharmaceuticals business.
Our organization has been fully engaged in separation activity since the announcement that we made last March and we're energized by the prospects of separating Baxter into 2 leading global health care companies one focused on developing and marketing innovative biopharmaceuticals and the other on life-saving medical products.
This decision supports Baxter's evolution and underscores our commitment to ensuring long-term strategic priorities remain aligned with shareholders' best interest while creating value for patients health care providers and other key stakeholders.
The 2 businesses operate in distinct markets with corresponding underlying fundamentals and each possesses unique and compelling growth prospects investment requirements and risk profiles.
The spinoff will create 2 well-capitalized independent companies with strong balance sheets investment-grade profiles and disciplined approaches to capital allocation.
The spin will also provide greater management focus the ability to more effectively commercialize new and existing product offerings to drive innovation and enhance our flexibility to pursue respective growth and investment strategies.
This will result in revenue acceleration improved profitability and enhanced returns for shareholders.
During 2014 we named our senior leadership teams for both companies established the international and commercial structures for both organizations formally unveiled Baxalta Incorporated as the name of the new publicly traded biopharmaceutical company and filed a preliminary Form-10 with the SEC for Baxalta.
While we continue to work through the complexities this process is unfolding in line with our expectations and we continue on track toward a mid-2015 completion.
We recently announced that we'll be hosting an investor conference in New York City on the afternoon of May 18 for Baxter International and on the morning of May 19 for Baxalta Incorporated.
At these conferences we'll introduce you to the new senior management teams and provide investors with more information regarding the strategies growth prospects capital structure and financial outlooks for each company.
We'll also engage in a comprehensive Investor Relations effort including investor road shows for both companies with their respective senior management teams several weeks before the spinoff is completed.
In closing while 2015 will be a challenging year momentum in the core business is building and we remain excited about our future prospects and we're poised for improved performance in 2016 and beyond.
As we chart distinct and unique paths forward as separate global health care leaders we look forward to unlocking value for shareholders partners employees and the patients and health care providers that we serve.
As always I'll be happy to take any questions on these or other topics during the Q&amp;A.
So with that I'd now like to open up the call to your questions if we might.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International's website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Brittany Henderson in for Kristen.
I just wanted to kind of get more clarity as we think about 2015.
How should we just think about the incremental standalone costs versus kind of the stranded costs associated with the Baxalta spin? Okay.
Well we're still working -- as we mentioned we're still working through the details around that.
We've talked about initial dis-synergies of approximately $300 million or approximately 2% of Baxter's current sales.
Interestingly enough almost half of that is going to relate to IT-related costs and we will be working towards separating the IT infrastructure over time but that is one of the longer lead time items.
So that is actually a difficult thing to break out at this point.
Our initial estimate was a little bit heavier towards Baxalta in terms of dis-synergies but a fair amount of stranded cost for new Baxter given again some of this IT overlap for some period of time.
But at this point I'm still working through those details.
That's part of what we look to address in the May investor conferences where each of the 2 companies will lay out the financial outlooks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up.
How should we think about Suprane in 2015? What are the assumptions for competition there? This is Bob Parkinson Brittany.
We anticipate Suprane is going to continue to grow in 2015.
Having said that we also anticipate that we may get generic competition in various markets around the world although as we sit here today it's not evident when or if or who that will be.
I will tell you that there continues -- it continues to be promotionally sensitive in many markets around the world.
So longer term we view the anesthesia contract -- franchise with Suprane as kind of a foundation product as a growth vehicle not only in '15 but frankly over our LRP.
Our next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is actually James in for David.
Just wanted to get a quick sense from you.
The first quarter earnings guidance of $0.85 to $0.90 how representative do you think that is of where the business stands from a profitability or earnings power basis today? On the one hand obviously you've got some idiosyncratic headwinds from quality spending that are going to fade through the year.
But on the other hand it seems as if FX and any potential ADVATE competitive impact would get greater through the year.
So is 1Q kind of a reasonable representation where the business stands today? Or is it wrong? As we've looked at the situation there are clearly some things in Q1 that are more pronounced.
The $0.10 in manufacturing clearly is something that is very much front-end loaded.
Overall manufacturing just to give you a sense is definitely a meaningful headwind in the first half of the year but a slight tailwind in the back half of the year and so that clearly is not representative of what the ongoing situation is with the company.
FX and cyclo are clearly meaningful headwinds here both around $0.40.
They will be somewhat back-end loaded particularly FX.
We're very well hedged in the first half of the year on the euro and a few other key currencies.
But again as we've been highlighting for 6 months the emerging market depreciation in currencies that happened in the back half of 2014 is still very much there and we're much more exposed as well.
So Q1 I would say is definitely not representative.
And as a general matter from a seasonality standpoint it's usually by far our lowest quarter from an earnings perspective in any given year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just second any help that you could give us on hemophilia guidance? Obviously you've done very well in that business strong double digits -- or double digits at a minimum for the past several quarters decelerating to 0% to 2% next year.
Clearly there's some competitive impact there.
But how do you think about balancing the U.S.
competitive impact versus the continued strength internationally? Well this is Ludwig James.
First of all the hemophilia team is doing a great job as you see from the numbers.
We will continue to grow ADVATE faster than market internationally.
So internationally we'll see positive growth.
In the U.S.
as Bob was alluding to our guidance of high single-digit market share loss between -- from the Biogen launch to 855's launch is still a guidance.
This will result in a negative growth in the U.S.
With respect to our sales guidance as we said hemophilia this is the base business only.
It's 0% to 2% for the year.
We have a separate sales guidance for the inhibitor market.
Our business will continue to grow 6% to 8%.
So overall when you take the 2 together we're talking about those single digits market low single-digit growth.
Our next question comes from David Roman of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted just to start on HYQVIA which Bob you gave some disclosure in your prepared remarks.
I think you said that there are 400 prescribers as of now.
Could you maybe just go into a little bit more detail on the launch? Was that a U.S.
or a global number? And how are things going thus far domestically? Yes David I'll let Ludwig address that.
Go ahead Ludwig.
Yes thanks.
So we're very pleased with the launch in the U.S.
The 400 number that we gave you is the U.S.
number only.
So the interest is very high.
We have a value proposition for the patient as well as for the payer.
The value proposition for the patient clearly it's a subQ once a month with one needle.
From a payer perspective although we take a price premium of about 30% we -- overall the cost of the treatment is still a favorable number.
Overall cost we think about 10% less because of the higher viability that we have with HYQVIA versus subQ.
So overall it's a very strong proposition for all of our key stakeholders.
Our objective is that HYQVIA is become -- will become a leadership brand within the PI market long term.
With respect to our 2015 guidance you saw 6% to 8% for IG.
We think that HYQVIA will be about $100 million for 2015.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then maybe secondly just broadly on the U.S.
businesses.
I think this was one of the better quarters you've had domestically in quite some time particularly in some of the more volume exposed or Medical Products businesses.
Can you maybe just talk through some of the underlying dynamics in the U.S.
what really drove -- got better this quarter? And your guidance doesn't -- does not seem to suggest that that's sustainable but why would that be the case? With respect to hemophilia when I think about ADVATE 2014 as well as the fourth quarter we've seen an impact of 1 to 2 market share points from the Biogen launch over the last 6 months.
However when you take all the different pieces of the puzzle together here the positive contribution of the prophy conversions and we have more than 650 patients that converted to -- as a prophy so that's positive contribution.
In addition to the weight gain contribution more than offset the share loss.
So that's the dynamic that we have and that's the reason why we are growing faster than the market.
Then our projection for 2015 we will continue -- as we said we're on track for a high single-digit market share loss for the year but we will not only have a Biogen competition our assumption is that we will also have new entries in the short-acting Factor VIII market segment.
Yes.
And David I would just add that given the momentum we've seen the last couple of quarters we are sticking with our original assumption here of the high single-digit market share loss but that may prove to be conservative.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I guess I was asking more broadly about your U.S.
franchises across the board.
I think if I look at the BioSurgery business that did better.
You had nice momentum in things like the specialty areas.
Is that -- why wouldn't that continue in 2015? I think -- Bob Parkinson here David.
Yes I think in many of those areas it will continue in '15.
I think we're seeing a little more stability in the market in terms of hospital procedures and hospital activity compared to what it was earlier which is encouraging.
We're also managing out of our -- some of the supply constraints that we incurred earlier in the year and got in a much better position in the fourth quarter on both IV solutions and PD solutions and we're bringing some more capacity online in '15.
So I think the underlying fundamentals whether it's the IV Fluid Systems business whether it's parenteral nutrition BioSurgery as you mentioned anesthesia.
And again we'll expand on this when we get together at the investor conference and so on but I think each of these product segments these are not -- these are never going to be double-digit growers but they're going to be solid single-digit growers.
And we'll provide some more color on that when we get together in May.
Yes David I think that -- yes just to add -- it's Mary Kay.
I will just say the decline in cyclo and in the other category are really predominantly what's driving the U.S.
performance to where it is in 2015.
And offsetting the strength in the other areas that I commented on.
So you get some pretty large netting effects there as you know.
Correct.
That's correct.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Let me just -- I want to circle back to the first quarter guidance because that's what I'm getting the most questions on.
So the $0.10 that you're calling out that's kind of the manufacturing impact the quality upgrade how much of that do you want us to think is ongoing versus onetime? Well as I mentioned we will see on a year-over-year basis a meaningful improvement in the back half of the year.
The nature of these are partly due to capacity expansion and the timing of that which will come online in the first half of 2015.
So that will certainly alleviate the need for some of the expedited freight and incremental logistical costs that we've been incurring.
Other aspects of the process modifications that we're working through will take a little bit more time to work down as we work down the cost curve on that.
These are well-established processes that we've been manufacturing PD and IV solutions for for decades so we'll take a little bit of time.
So I would say a meaningful portion in the back half some will linger into 2016.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we think about just the $0.85 to $0.90 starting point and recognizing the first quarter's historically like 22% to 23% of the year's earnings so it's not a best representation but you still have in front of you the full impact of generic cyclos.
It sounds like you're assuming the front-end part but not the whole part so there's still a little bit of a tail there.
And then obviously you've got that call it $0.45 of dis-synergies from the split of the 2 companies.
Is that the right way to think about it in terms of what's still in front of you in terms of the EPS headwinds that we won't see in the first quarter but we'll still see at some later date? Well as it relates to cyclophosphamide we do anticipate a pretty meaningful impact here in the first quarter.
It won't be 1/4 of the year but it will be meaningful and certainly even the first -- excuse me in the first quarter we expect a meaningful impact.
And in the first half almost half of the full year impact we expect to see.
As you know when generics come in the pricing volume dynamics start to play out pretty quickly.
So that is fairly representative of what the full year is going to look like.
As it relates to the dis-synergies estimate again we won't really see those in the P&amp;L in any meaningful way until the back half of 2015.
The initial estimate is around $300 million but both of the 2 companies are going to get busy as quickly as possible post spin to start working those down.
So how that plays into what our full year 2016 is going to look like I don't anticipate that's going to be $300 million.
I think it's going to be lower and that will be part of what we lay out in the May time frame.
Our next question comes from Larry Keusch of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Bob I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about the outlook for Brazil in 2015.
You obviously did as you anticipated for this year and achieved over $100 million in sales.
But talk a little bit about what has to continue to happen on the conversions and where you think you are as you go towards that I think $200 million-ish target.
Why don't you take that? Yes.
So we gave you a target of $200 million.
Clearly we're on track to achieve that over time.
As far as the market is concerned there are about 10 000 hemophilia A patients in Brazil.
We have now converted more than 4 000 patients.
As we convert from plasma to recombinant we also convert those patients from on-demand to prophy and our penetration of prophy in those patients is about closer to 70%.
So we still have a long way to go and that's where the additional $100 million opportunity is coming from.
2015 will be the next step in the journey that is going to take longer than 2 years to get to the 100% conversion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess for Bob Parkinson one thing that you've talked about is potential opportunities to establish other public-private relationships such as the Brazil hemophilia agreement.
Could you provide any thoughts on -- do you think that's still viable in other either geographies or other product categories and when we may see something transpiring? Yes.
I think it's -- Larry I think it's going to be an increasing opportunity actually for both companies in both businesses because I think governments are going to be thrust in a position to kind of embrace new paradigms in terms of how they manage health care cost.
And I think inevitably it's going to involve collaborations with suppliers certainly leading suppliers in ways of doing business going forward that are different.
So obviously the Hemobrás collaboration in Brazil on hemophilia has been well discussed and everybody understands that.
But I mean we're building a new solutions plant in Thailand to manufacture PD solutions which was the direct result of us working with the Thai government to establish from a policy point of view peritoneal dialysis as the therapy of choice not hemodialysis largely because it's lower cost.
It saves the government money and in the process we're making investments.
We're creating jobs in Thailand.
China is another good example where we've had a program that we'd refer to or describe internally as the Flying Angels project which has really been another example of a great collaboration that's driving adoption of PD therapy.
And I know Ludwig and his team continue to have discussions on various fronts as does new BAX.
So I just think this is going to be a new way of doing business going forward and I would anticipate in the coming years both companies will do more of these kinds of collaborations.
Our next question comes from Derrick Sung of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit about if you could help us think about the capital structure of the 2 split businesses moving forward.
Can you give us a sense for how we should think about will debt be split evenly amongst the companies? And in terms of the dividend how should we think about high level kind of dividend profile of the 2 businesses? Derrick this is Bob Hombach.
As we've been saying we're going to give the whole financial picture for both organizations the financial outlook for sales for earnings CapEx spend and capital structure including capital allocation assumptions in the May time frame.
A lot to work through as we work through the separation here and that act is obviously a very key aspect of this.
We do believe both companies are going to generate significant cash flow going forward and we'll have a significant amount of flexibility to be disciplined about capital allocation and to think about returning significant value to shareholders as we've been doing in the past but also continue to reinvest in the businesses to support future growth.
So we'll lay all that out in the May time frame.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well maybe then focusing a bit on the Baxter the Medical Products business for I guess either of the Bobs.
You've talked a bit about the potential for a margin expansion opportunity coming out with a relatively lower margin relative to your peers.
Could you help us think a little bit more about kind of -- does that margin expansion come primarily from mix shift? Is it -- we understand the Gambro piece to it.
But beyond Gambro where does that primarily come from and kind of how do we get there? Yes Derrick Bob Parkinson here.
Let me spend a couple of minutes responding to that.
First of all the comment about our returns being lower than peers I think everybody understands one of the reasons for that is we are in very logistics-intensive businesses.
Shipping IV solutions and PD solutions is expensive so we have a freight distribution line on our P&amp;L which is inherent in those businesses as opposed to let's say traditional medical device or hospital supply businesses.
Now having said that what we will show you at the investor conference in May is a steady improvement over the LRP and operating margins that are very achievable and I think will be significant as well.
And they really emanate from a series of things and I'll just touch on a few in the interest of time.
We clearly are going to increase our focus and investment in what I'll call higher-margin higher-growth product categories things like anesthesia BioSurgery parenteral nutrition the acute -- the CRRT business in the hospital setting.
These are all businesses today that range between $0.5 billion to $1 billion that are promotionally sensitive have prospects for higher growth and are higher margin so would represent a mix upgrade.
Also we're very excited about the engagement if you will in the infusion pump business with the approval of the SIGMA Spectrum Version 8.
We'll be rolling that out in 2015 in the U.S.
We effectively have been out of the infusion pump business for a number of years and there's been a lot of margin that's been lost attendant [ph] with share loss with -- starting with the colleague things and so on.
So we're on the cusp of being able to get that back.
Also our new product low in new BAX and again we'll get into this in detail in May but VIVIA home hemodialysis AMIA the next-generation home PD solution Prismaflex [ph] which is our next-generation CRRT.
We have a program called Project Carrera [ph] internally which is an array of premixed drugs that we'll be developing and bringing to the market in our proprietary GALAXY technology.
These are all very exciting growth opportunities and new product opportunities but all of which represent margins.
In some cases that are meaningfully higher than the overall margin percentage of the business.
Clearly we still have a lot of synergy to capture from Gambro going forward.
It's tracking very well.
We've achieved a lot of that but there's still meaningful opportunity consistent with our original projections on Gambro synergies both cost and commercial synergies.
I think you'll see us managing portfolio very aggressively both from a product and geography point of view.
And to be very frankly -- to be very frank I think the split off of the company provides a better line of sight to really focus on overhead infrastructure costs and so on and you can anticipate that we're going to do some things in that regard to be proactive.
So I'll stop there and will expand on each of these in detail in May.
But each of the things I mentioned are meaningful and that's why we're pretty confident about our ability to drive meaningful improvement over the long-range plan and beyond.
Our next question comes from Bruce Nudell of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Ludwig could you just parse in the U.S.
hemophilia guidance for next year how much of the high single digits kind of ELOCTATE versus more standard competitive or recombinant Factor VIII? And just comment more generally on -- basically all the surveys everybody did on the sell-side indicated that ELOCTATE would be much more impactful than it's proving to be.
Does that -- and given the changes in hemophilia that are likely to occur over the next 5 years or so does it speak at all to Baxter's competitive advantage in that space because of the intimacy you have with patients and caregivers? Just any general comments in that regard.
Well it's a good question thank you.
With respect to the surveys I think my answer would be we'll post the surveys.
We have now 6 months of data.
So at this point the surveys are very qualitative but the quantitative piece comes from the actual data.
So that will be my answer to the survey question.
With respect to the market itself it's a very sticky market.
We've seen this.
We see this in Factor VIII.
Now when you look at the market dynamics in IX it's not much different with the new entrants including RIXUBIS.
So the market I believe will continue to look for the standard treatment because we raised the bar and the bar is very high.
The bar is 0 blips.
And when you look at the clinical data 0 to 1 is where the SA data comes out and that's a very high bar.
So irrespective of the new technology we're talking about an efficacy target which is very high.
We do believe that we have a very strong strategy in place starting from the gold standard ADVATE moving to 855 which is ADVATE in a PEGylated form to known technologies moving to 826 which is ADVATE in a PSA technology and then leapfrogging maybe those technology with potentially gene therapy.
In gene therapy as you know we'll post proof of clinical concept in hemophilia B.
We're going to show that data in a couple of weeks in Helsinki.
But overall we believe that we are in a position of strength to continue to grow this franchise moving forward.
Research Division</strong> And Bob just talk -- could you give us some general comments about your assessment of the progress of Gambro? I know that PD is growing high single digits low double digits thereabouts and your guidance for renal 4% to 5% in '15.
How does Gambro figure into that? Is it tracking as you hoped in terms of revenue growth? Yes.
First of all relative to synergies we're tracking very much on target okay? And so the numbers that we laid out at the outset will be achieved both in total and the time frame attendant with that so we're pleased with that.
In terms of commercial performance frankly we got off to a little bit of a slow start that we've really picked up steam.
I think if you look at the first half second half comps '14 versus '13 you saw the momentum build in the second half and I think that's a by-product of the natural challenges of integrating organizationally and getting the alignment leadership established and so on.
But I think we are very much on a pace to generate revenue growth commensurate with what we messaged at the time of the acquisition.
And of course we look forward to being able to expand dialyzer capacity in 2016 and beyond which is going to be very helpful to meet more demand.
The other thing I would say the commercial synergy component of this now having the full product line gives us a lot of flexibility.
I mentioned in response to one of the earlier questions about public-private partnerships and so on managing the cost of providing access to treatment of end-stage renal disease dialysis is a very -- that's a big ticket item on every health care budget for every country around the world and this is an area where naturally they're going to look for collaborations and how to partner to manage that.
Given our full product offering I think we're in the best position to partner with governments to do that as evidenced by the example I gave with the PD First program in Thailand.
So I'm very pleased with the acquisition.
There's always fits and starts when you do something of this size and complexity but I'm really glad we did the deal and it's going to be a big part of our growth going forward.
Bob? Yes maybe just a clarification Bruce.
We have talked about patient double-digit patient growth in the U.S.
as a result of change in reimbursement.
Recall U.S.
is less than 20% of global PD sales.
So if we look at our guidance for 2015 kind of mid-single digits for the overall renal business.
In fact PD and the legacy Gambro business are both expected to grow in that mid single-digit range.
So it's comparable.
Our final question comes from Chris Hamblett of Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on hemophilia.
As you kind of position gene therapy as the next major potential breakthrough for the longer competitive dynamics in that market what do you think you'll need to show in terms of long-term durability and safety to address potential regulatory concerns there with the gene therapy? And then second what exactly are you going to show in terms of new clinical data for BAX 335 in February? And when might the Factor VIII gene therapy be ready for the clinic? I believe you said later this year but I wanted to make sure that was correct.
Okay.
With respect to the gene therapy as I mentioned we'll post proof of concept on hemophilia B.
So the data that we're going to present in 2 weeks from now will be individual patient data where we will be showing -- and I've shared that before we see sustained levels of Factor VIII expression elevated versus current treatments.
With respect to what is the target level there is some data with respect to target level depends on activity of the patient.
When you're talking about patients that are active it might be 20%-plus and yet we are able to achieve those levels with hemophilia B.
Then with respect to your question on regulatory pathway that is still a work in progress.
My assumption at this moment is that for every new technology that comes into hemophilia that it might be a little bit different than the way that we've developed ADVATE 855 because there's always going to be more questions with respect to efficacy sustainability and long-term probability.
But we'll keep you posted as soon as we got the regulatory input.
And with respect to the timing of gene therapy for hemophilia A we're planning to start our clinical program in the next year.
So hemophilia B we'll post proof of concept; hemophilia A we're going to take the same technology into the clinic in about a year from now.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
Everyone have a wonderful day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will remain in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer segment of today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Mary Kay Ladone Corporate Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Ladone you may begin.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to our Q1 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Ludwig Hantson President BioScience; and Bob Hombach Chief Financial Officer.
As previously announced Bob Hombach will be transitioning into his new role as Chief Financial and Operations Officer for Baxalta Incorporated upon completion of the Baxalta spin and Jay Saccaro who is also with us today will be assuming the role of Chief Financial Officer for Baxter International.
On the call this morning we'll be discussing Baxter's first quarter financial results and outlook for the second quarter before taking your questions.
I would like to take a moment to highlight that we'll be hosting separate investor conferences in New York City on the afternoon of May 18 for Baxter International and the morning of May 19 for Baxalta Incorporated.
At these conferences we will introduce you to the new Senior Management Teams and provide investors with more information regarding the strategies growth prospects capital structure and financial outlook for each company including guidance for the second half of 2015 and longer term projections.
I encourage you to visit the Investor Relations page of the Baxter website to register for the event.
In addition we'll also engage in a comprehensive Investor Relations effort including Investor road shows for both companies with the respective Senior Management teams several weeks before the spinoff is completed.
So with that let me start our prepared remarks this morning by reminding you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition in today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Thanks Mary Kay.
Good morning.
Thank you all for calling in.
As you saw in the press release that was issued this morning Baxter reported financial results for the first quarter with adjusted earnings of $1 per diluted share exceeding guidance of $0.85 to $0.90 per share.
Worldwide sales excluding currency increased 4% also exceeding guidance.
We continue to successfully deliver on a wide range of strategic and operational objectives as we're extending our global reach launching innovative and differentiated products and therapies advancing our new product pipeline and investing to drive future growth and position the two companies for sustained success.
Our new product pipeline is focused on a number of programs that improve the quality of care and address key high potential areas of unmet medical need.
Some recent highlights include CE marking in Europe for HOMECHOICE CLARIA an automated peritoneal dialysis system integrated with the SHARESOURCE web-based connectivity platform.
This system is designed with user friendly features and secure two way connectivity.
So healthcare providers can monitor their patient's home PD treatments and adjust prescriptions as necessary.
We expect to initiate the commercial launch of the system in select European and Asian countries beginning in the second quarter of this year.
We also received FDA approval and orphan drug designation of PHOXILLUM Renal Replacement Solutions for use in continuous renal replacement therapy or CRRT to correct electrolyte and acid-base imbalances and we plan to introduce these solutions in the United States in the coming weeks.
In BioScience we submitted a new drug application to Japan’s Ministry of Health for the approval of BAX 855 our investigational extended half-life recombinant factor VIII treatment for hemophilia A based on ADVATE.
In addition we've also completed enrollment in the BAX 855 pediatric study which will support post-approval label expansion in the U.S.
for previously treated pediatric patients and European regulatory submission in 2016.
We announced positive results from the Phase III study of BAX 817 for patients with hemophilia A or B who develop inhibitors.
The trial met its endpoint of successful resolution of acute bleeding episodes with an overall success rate of 92%.
No patients developed inhibitors or binding antibodies during the study and none discontinued treatment due to adverse events.
We expect to initiate regulatory submissions in the next several years aligned with the prioritization of other pipeline assets and manufacturing expansions currently underway.
Our partner CTI BioPharma announced positive top-line results from PERSIST-1 a randomized controlled Phase III registration clinical trial examining pacritinib a next generation oral JAK2/FLT3 inhibitor for the treatment of patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis.
The trial met its primary endpoint of reduction of spleen volume and the safety profile was consistent with previous studies.
Data will be highlighted in a late-breaking oral presentation at the American Society of Clinical Oncology Meeting in Chicago next month.
Under our collaboration with Momenta Pharmaceuticals we initiated a pharmacokinetic trial in Europe for BAX 923 a biosimilar version of HUMIRA.
As you know HUMIRA is a therapy for patients with autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
And finally we presented interim data from the Phase I/II study of BAX 335 an investigational factor IX gene therapy treatment for hemophilia B.
The trial is assessing the safety of ascending doses of BAX 335 in up to 16 adult patients to determine the optimal single dose.
At the end of 2014 a total of six patients from three dosing cohorts had been treated with evidence of a dose-related response.
In the two highest dose cohorts Factor IX activity levels in 10% or above were observed in two patients with no bleeding episodes.
In addition no patients developed Factor IX inhibitors.
We expect to disclose additional data at the upcoming ISTH Congress in Toronto in June.
In addition to internal innovations strategic acquisitions and partnerships remain essential for both businesses as we continue to enhance and bolster our portfolio.
During the first quarter we acquired SuppreMol a privately held biopharmaceutical company based in Germany developing treatment options for autoimmune and allergic diseases.
The acquisition includes SuppreMol's early stage development portfolio of novel biologic immunoregulatory therapeutics for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and IgE-mediated allergic diseases.
The technology focuses on the modulation of FC receptors signaling pathways and immune target that could have broad applications of diseases like Lupus a disorder in which the immune system attacks healthy tissue.
And we signed an exclusive global licensing and distribution agreement with Laboratoire Aguettant SAS for trace elements which are essential micronutrients used in parenteral nutrition therapy.
This collaboration augment Baxter’s leading parenteral nutritional portfolio and the companies will work together to pursue a broad range of regulatory approvals including United States.
In summary our core portfolio remains strong.
We continue to benefit from the focus on life saving therapies and we’re pursuing new avenues to enhance the value of our products for patients in healthcare providers.
Innovation is the life blood of Baxter’s success and our increased investment and recent achievements point the way to even greater success in the future.
Before I turn the call over to Bob I highlight as you know that we’re quickly nearing a transformational milestone in Baxter’s history with the creation of two leading healthcare companies.
One focused on developing and marketing innovative biopharmaceuticals and the other on life saving medical products.
This will present a remarkable opportunity for growth and success in two new companies with unique and compelling investment identities prospects and strategies while each continues to extend their legacy of pioneering science and enhancing shareholder value.
Our employees around the world have been fully engaged in separation activity since the announcement last March.
And we remain on track toward a mid-2015 completion as a result of their dedication and commitment.
And while the separation will occur during a period of transitions our passion for saving and sustaining lives will be enduring.
As always I’ll be happy to take any questions on this or other topics during the Q&amp;A.
And with that let me now turn the call over to Bob Hombach for discussion of our first quarter financial results and outlook.
Bob? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
Adjusted earnings in the first quarter of $1 per diluted share exceeded our previously issued guidance range of $0.85 to $0.90 per share.
These results included $74 million of unplanned other income or $0.11 per diluted share primarily associated with the impact of foreign currency and balance sheet positions.
As we mentioned in the press release GAAP earnings of $0.78 per diluted share included net after tax special items totaling $120 million or $0.22 per diluted share primarily for intangible asset amortization and cost associated with the company’s plan separation and the integration of its Gambro AB acquisition.
These charges were partially offset by a benefit related to the reversal of certain business optimization reserves.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to the financial outlook for the second quarter of 2015.
Starting with sales.
Worldwide sales of approximately $3.8 billion declined 2% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 4% which favorably compares to our guidance for the quarter of 2 to 3%.
Medical Product sales were in line with our expectations while strong growth across the BioScience portfolio contributed to the over achievement.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 4% and international sales on a constant currency basis increased 5%.
Emerging markets continue to be a key growth driver across the Medical Products and BioScience portfolios as evidenced by mid-teens growth in the BRIC markets during the first quarter.
In terms of individual business performance global BioScience sales totaled approximately 1.4 billion in the quarter and increased 2% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis BioScience sales advanced by more than 8% comparable to the full year growth generated last year with continued positive momentum across the portfolio.
Our hematology business which includes hemophilia and inhibitor therapies generated global sales of $807 million which declined 2% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis hematology sales grew 5%.
Within the hematology product categories hemophilia sales in the first quarter of $641 million declined 5% on a reported basis and on a constant currency basis global sales increased 2%.
Strong global demand for recombinant therapies including ADVATE and RIXUBIS was offset by the impact related to our reimbursement assistance program which was recently implemented for patients in the U.S.
and the timing of tender sales in Eastern Europe.
Excluding these impacts hemophilia sales in the quarter increased 6%.
In the U.S.
sales in the hemophilia category were up 5% after adjusting for the impact of new reimbursement program.
We continue to be pleased with the overall growth of recombinant factor A therapies despite the competitive environment and modest patient losses.
We continue to estimate our cumulative recombinant factor A share loss at approximately 2%.
Sales in the inhibitor category which includes FEIBA and OBIZUR of $166 million advanced 9% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis inhibitor sales advanced 18%.
This was primarily driven by demand and price improvements for FEIBA as we continue to promote a prophylaxis indication and a modest contribution from the recent launch of OBIZUR for patients with acquired hemophilia.
You may recall only 15% to 20% of inhibitor patients globally are treated prophylactically presenting a significant long term growth opportunity for a hematology business.
Turning to the immunology business which includes immunoglobulin therapies such as HYQVIA and GAMMAGARD LIQUID as well as biotherapeutics sales totaled $554 million in advanced 10% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis immunology sales grew 14% versus the prior year.
Immunoglobulin sales of $420 million increased 6% on a reported basis or 9% on a constant currency basis.
This was a result of robust demand particularly in chronic primary immunodeficiency market strong international growth driven by our improved supply and the contribution of HYQVIA.
As you may recall we launched HYQVIA in the U.S.
during the fourth quarter last year.
This is a transformational therapy within attractive value proposition for patients physicians and payers.
We are very pleased with the uptick and continue to experience a favorable reception in the U.S.
marketplace based on its differentiation.
Of the 15 000 adult PI subQ patients we now have approximately 1 500 patients on HYQVIA with majority converting from competitive therapies.
Lastly in the biotherapeutics category which primarily includes albumin and our alpha-1 therapies we recorded sales of $134 million which increased 29% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 36% driven by an easier comparison to last year favorable pricing and increased demand for albumin particularly in China.
In Medical Products global sales were approximately $2.4 billion declined 5% and on a constant currency basis sales increased 2%.
Adjusting both periods for the impact of new generic competition in the U.S.
for cyclophosphamide Medical Product sales rose 4% on a constant currency basis.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $913 million reflecting a decline of 8% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 1%.
PD growth of mid to high single digits which was driven primarily by solid PD patient gains in Asia was offset by the selective loss of certain lower margin HD monitor and dialyzer sale along with our objective of optimizing margins.
Within the fluid systems category sales of $493 million declining 2% and on a constant currency basis sales grew 3%.
Performances driven by favorable pricing and demand for IV therapies and infusion systems in the U.S.
Sales in the integrated pharmacy solutions business totaled $564 million and declined 5%.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 1% as strong growth of nutritional therapies and compounding services revenues were offset by lower cyclophosphamide sales in the U.S.
Excluding this impact sales in the category advanced 10%.
A new competitor entered the U.S.
market for cyclophosphamide during the fourth quarter last year and we continue to expect additional competitors.
As a reference full year 2014 U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales totaled approximately $450 million and sales in the first quarter of 2015 totaled approximately $60 million.
Revenues in surgical care which includes our inhaled anesthetics in BioSurgery products were $322 million in the quarter and comparable to last year.
Sales rose 5% on a constant currency basis as double digit growth in anesthesia reflecting increased global penetration with someone offset by lower sales of select BioSurgery products.
Finally sales in the BioPharma Solutions and other category which is our former partnering business totaled $111 million increasing 1% on a reported basis or 6% on a constant currency basis.
Performance can be attributive primarily to increased demand from our contract manufacturing partners.
Turning to the rest of P&amp;L gross margin in the quarter was 49% compared to 50.4% last year.
Positive mix select pricing improvements and foreign currency hedge gains were more than offset by the expected cyclophosphamide and manufacturing impacts.
SG&amp;A totaled $887 million and declined 1%.
On a constant currency basis SG&amp;A increased 6%.
This growth reflects bad debt expense driven by adjustments in several emerging markets and BioScience’s investments to support international operations and marketing initiatives related to new product launches.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $298 million increased 7% driven primarily by an increasing in BioScience which was offset by foreign currency.
In BioScience we continue to invest in various programs across the disease areas of hematology immunology and oncology while advancing technology platforms such as gene therapy and biosimilars.
Interest expense was $30 million in the first quarter compared to $43 million last year as we benefitted from recent debt maturities higher capitalized interest and income generated from the change in the mix of floating versus fixed interest rates.
Other income totaled $74 million and -- including gains related to the impact of foreign currency on balance sheet positions driven by the significant decline in the Euro during the quarter.
The tax rate was 21.8% for the quarter in line with our expectations and as previously mentioned adjusted earnings of $1 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range.
Finally let me conclude my comments this morning by providing an update on our full year sales guidance and outlook for the second quarter.
Beginning with the new Baxter franchises on a constant currency basis we continue to expect sales for the full year 2015 to be comparable to 2014 primarily due to the impact of generics cyclophosphamide.
Excluding cyclophosphamide in both years underlying growth would be approximately 3%.
We now expect sales in our renal franchise to grow approximately 3%.
This is somewhat lower than our original expectations as we remain committed to servicing our patients while all folks focusing on enhancing profitability.
As such we made proactive decision to forgo lower margin sales opportunities.
For fluid systems we continue to expect sales to grow in the 2 to 3% range.
We continue to expect sales of our surgical care franchise to grow in the 4 to 5% range.
We now expect the integrated pharmacy solutions sales to decline high single digits.
This category includes cyclophosphamide and the impact of generic competition.
For 2015 we estimate U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales of approximately $150 million and growth for the category after adjusting for cyclo is expected to be in mid-single digits.
And finally we expect the other category to decline approximately 15% which will be impacted by major customer electing to self-manufacture products previously manufactured by Baxter.
For Baxalta we now project sales growth on a constant currency basis of approximately 4%.
Our outlook includes growth in the hemophilia franchise of 0% to 2% which will be fueled by new product launches and strong international demand which will be somewhat offset by anticipated high single digit share loss for a recombinant factor A therapies in the U.S.
due to competition.
We now expect growth in the inhibitors category to exceed 8% driven by strong performance in the first quarter further penetration in growth of FEIBA for the treatment of inhibitors and the launch of OBIZUR of acquired hemophilia patients.
For immunoglobulin therapies we continue to expect growth of 6% to 8% driven by strong market demand and contribution from HYQVIA.
And finally for BioTherapeutics which includes plasma based therapies like albumin and treatments for alpha-1 deficiencies we continue to expect growth in the 2% to 4% range.
As we previously highlighted given the complexities of a mid-year spend we are not in a position today to provide full year P&amp;L guidance for Baxter and Baxalta.
We are however providing guidance for the second quarter as Baxter will be publishing earnings result for the combined business at the end of July.
As stated in our press release for the combined business we expect adjusted earnings excluding special items of $0.92 to $0.96 per diluted share.
This guidance does not reflect any material incremental standup cost for the separation as expenses will begin to be layered in toward the end of the quarter.
Our outlook by P&amp;L line item we expect second quarter sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency to increase approximately 1%.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to decline 9% to 10%.
By business on a constant currency basis we expect medical product sales to be comparable to last year and BioScience sales to grow approximately 4%.
We expect the gross margin for the company to decline by more than 150 basis points versus the second quarter margin last year of 50.3%.
We expect SG&amp;A to decline in high single digits and R&amp;D to decline in mid single digits.
On a constant currency basis SG&amp;A growth is expected to be in low single digits and R&amp;D growth is expected to be in mid to high single digits.
And finally for the second quarter we expect interest expense to total approximately $35 million and other income of approximately $50 million.
This does not include any impact of foreign currency on balance sheet positions as our outlook assumes current foreign exchange rates remain constant.
We expect a tax rate of approximately 22% and an average share count of approximately 547 million shares.
I would like to conclude my prepared remarks this morning by saying that we recognize investors and analysts need more information to help model both companies separately.
So we look forward to providing you with an overview of the businesses at our upcoming investor conferences on May 18 2015 and May 19 2015 in New York.
At this point our estimate of initial incremental stand-up cost to create two independent companies remains approximately 2% of total Baxter sales or slightly more than $300 million.
About half of these costs will be reflected in operating results beginning in the second half of 2015.
Going forward both companies will take steps to reduce a meaningful portion of these costs over the next several years post spin.
Finally as we're finalizing the capital allocation strategies of each business I would emphasize that both businesses will have strong balance sheets generate significant cash flow and have flexibility to follow a disciplined capital allocation approach which balances reinvestment in the business with returning value to shareholders.
This concludes my prepared remarks this morning.
We look forward to providing more financial information to you in May.
Now let we open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I'd like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International's website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from Josh Jennings of Cowen and Company.
Your question please.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess first just on the renal business I was hoping to get a little bit more color on not only the decrease in projection there for that business but also just specifically on Gambro the performance in the quarter and the outlook going forward and then update on the cost synergies.
Sure Josh Bob Parkinson.
I may ask Jay Saccaro to add his comments as well.
Relative to the renal performance clearly the growth in first quarter was -- actually the business was fairly flat as we pointed out in the script largely due conscious decision to walk away from a couple of tenders that frankly weren’t generating the kind of returns that we expect.
One of the things that we've talked about before and you'll hear more about when we were in New York a few weeks is our increased focus on portfolio and particularly in areas that the returns in certain businesses in certain countries are not generating accept those kind of returns and so that was really what contributed mostly to the softness in the first quarter of the overall renal business.
Going forward we're looking at mid single digit growth for the remainder of the year that’s really led by faster growth in the acute area.
But overall we're projecting about mid single digit growth as I said for the last nine months of the year.
So in some ways the first quarter was a bit of an anomaly.
Relative to your question more specifically about Gambro the decisions we made to walk away from tenders and so were in fact in the chronic space the hemodialysis space that would be associated with the Gambro business.
The PD business continues to -- underlying demand continues to be strong globally I would say that we continue to work through the integration issues with Gambro as we face that on a global basis.
Again the numbers right now are tracking a little bit behind the model that we pull together when we did the acquisition but we continue to be very positive about the decision to make the acquisition and the prospects of the business going forward.
Jay you want to talk about maybe the second part of the question Baxter question.
Yes I believe the second part was in relation to overall cost synergies and how that's tracking.
As we think about that component we've previously commented $300 million in annual savings achieved by 2017.
As we sit here today we're confident that we're much on track in terms of achieving the milestones necessary to achieve that level of cost savings by 2017.
Josh one thing I would add coming back to my comments the specific focus on Gambro obviously one of the rationales behind the deal was to be able to bring forward a broad based product offering and in addition to the cost synergies that Jay just commented on is the opportunity for commercial synergies that we're all starting to release.
So as we move forward really the way to value this business or evaluate the business is to look at it in total.
While the chronic business was softer in the first quarter for the reasons that I mentioned we're seeing synergies already in terms of increased demand in the PD segment as a result of being able to bring a broad product offering to the marketplace particularly participating in certain tenders and so on where we have as I say a complete product offering.
So I think going forward the way to look at this business is really an aggregate because you're going to see the various components certainly in the chronic space where there is traditional in-center or PD in the home begin to melt together somewhat.
Great thanks for that and just a quick follow-up.
I know you're going to give more details at the Investor Day but you have called out that the new Baxter is going to hold a 20% stake in Baxalta.
Can you just give us some details around the rationale behind that strategy? Any timelines in terms of the ultimate sale of that stake and deployment of that capital thanks a lot.
Again we'll be more specific on that in a couple of weeks but Bob maybe you might just want to make couple of comments about that.
Well certainly yes.
Josh I think first and foremost this is a clear indication of confidence in the future prospects of Baxalta and I think it provides a significant amount of flexibility in terms of capital structure really for both businesses as we approach this significant separation and try to set up the two entities for sustainable success going forward.
Again very confident in the ability to generate significant cash for both and want to ensure we position both that in a very competitive environment to be ready and able to continue to pursue their strategies which include reinvesting in the business and potentially bolt-on acquisitions as well.
And as Bob mentioned I think we will get into much more detail on that as we get into the Investor Conference in May.
Thank you.
David Roman of Goldman Sachs is on the line with a question.
Your question please.
Thank you good morning everybody.
Hey Bob.
I wanted just to start with hemophilia.
I think in your prepared remarks you referenced 2% cumulative share loss for now three quarters into the Biogen launch.
Are we at a point now where you feel confident in sort of your original substance about the pace of share loss and if that is the case why not a more optimistic outlook than the 0% to 2% guidance that you're providing for the balance of 2015.
All right.
I'll turn this to the expert Ludwig.
Well thanks for the question David.
So as you said we continue to see growth in our recombinant Factor VIII demands in the U.S.
In addition to that as you saw we have very strong FEIBA growth.
I can tell you we have a very strong team and ADVATE has a very strong brand equity.
And the bar is high and the bar is high on efficacy and tolerability.
So with respect to guidance that we gave you already last year high single digit market share loss between the launch and the launch of ELOCTATE and the launch of 855.
We still stick to that guidance for now.
The 2% market share we're doing better as expected.
We're going to see what we're going to do in the next couple of quarters.
You should also note that we will get additional competition within the Factor VIII space in U.S.
So we will keep you posted on how we're doing and we will adjust our sales guidance accordingly.
And if I could just clarify something just before I go to my second question.
You said the high single digit share loss between ELOCTATE and 855 so I think about the total Baxter franchise ADVATE plus 855 the share loss will be lower than high single digits.
Well I think the expectation is we would get approval very late in 2015 and then launch 855.
So from midyear last year launch of ELOCTATE till that point at the end of this year before we launch 855 that that’s the single digit share loss that we're referring to.
So as we think it's about in 18 months period.
Got it.
Okay.
And then secondly just on margins Bob in your comments around renal you made the point that you did walk away from some lower margin business and I think one of the potential opportunities around the medical products is the relative profitability compared to peers.
Can you just may be give some sense on the dissynergies.
How easy is it just to cut out those incremental $300 million it sounds like you're adding the cost than in terms of pulling it back out.
You have commitment to ranch it that down but how long does something like that take and what are the steps needed to get there.
First of all the entire $300 million is in new BAX that's partly absorbed by Baxalta as well.
But nonetheless it’s a meaningful number.
I would say our intent would be to offset the negative impact of dissynergies and stranded costs if you will probably within a two-year timeframe but frankly that’s just part of a broader initiative to evaluate opportunity to pull out structural cost which is a significant opportunity going forward.
This is the story that you're going to hear in a few weeks in New York is our belief strongly is that there is an opportunity to meaningfully improve margins over time whether it’s the Gambro synergies that we continue to track well on as Jay commented earlier focus on structural cost improvement in manufacturing efficiencies and costs going forward because we have absorbed some incremental costs.
As you know in our facilities particularly in manufacturing IV solutions and PD solutions as a result of looking for ways to enhance our operational and quality performance in those businesses the re-launch of CIGMA spectrum portfolio as I talked about in terms of a more proactive management of that and then increased focus on higher margin higher growth product.
So in aggregate this provides a very exciting opportunity to meaningfully increase margins over time but you're right.
Back to your question David as you benchmark versus peers and so on as you'll see we're at the lower end.
Now part of that frankly to some degree is the nature of the businesses that we're in.
Not only IV solutions but PD solutions we incur significant distribution cost as associated would be in those businesses that typically are unique to those kinds of businesses compared to other companies you might want to benchmark again.
So in some ways the real litmus test here is in those businesses are we generating returns that are sufficiently in excess of our cost of capital.
In many ways this gets back to the whole notion of focusing on portfolio.
So again I'll stop there.
Jay I could talk a lot of this but you'll hear more on this in few weeks David.
Thank you.
David Lewis of Morgan Stanley is on the line with a question.
Please take you question.
Good morning.
Just a couple of quick ones here.
Just into the second quarter Bob the earnings was a little lower than you were expecting but some of the factors you discussed weren’t materially different than we were expecting.
So does that simple reflect conservatism or simply incremental cycle of pressure with a little bit of currency? So what is specifically driving some of the pressure sequentially? Well yes first and foremost I would say the second quarter very much aligns with our outlook of the full year.
So there is a calendarization impact at work here as well just in terms of timing of tenders and so on.
But clearly the cycle impact will accelerate in the second quarter relative to the first quarter fairly meaningfully as that first competitor is much more entrenched in the marketplace.
And FX will continue to be a headwind as we've talked about the rate at which we've been able to hedge key currencies like the Euro or much in the first half of the year than they are in the back half of the year.
So that's certainly a contributor to the near term.
But again I would emphasize this is all very much in line with our expectations as we look at 2015 initially.
Very very clear.
And then Ludwig just with the commentary I guess that Bob had made but on inhibitors the volume growth is actually very impressive.
The other comment that was interesting though I think there was a comment about stronger pricing in the inhibitor segment.
I am trying to figure out where exactly that stronger pricing is coming from? Is this simply mix or are you just given the strength of the portfolio using this as an opportunity to take up price in either these or obviously this new or FEIBA.
Well FEIBA is the number one driver within that segment.
So we're just launching OBIZUR and the patient response is very positive on OBIZUR.
So we're still building that business.
On FEIBA we see different dimensions here.
The first one continued growth -- demand growth because of very strong rollout of the [profile] [ph] indication and in addition to that we've been able to take a little bit of price on FEIBA.
Okay.
And then just one quick one and I'll jump back in queue.
For Bob Parkinson Bob you talked about renal cost cutting and then sort of renal growth being a little slower.
In terms of capacity that was a big driver of the Gambro transaction.
Are we going to ramp capacity at certain plants? Is there any concern that if growth is slower on renal that's going to put some pressure on some of the gross margin objectives or are you still comfortable with those gross margin objectives or simply feel that there are more SG&amp;A cost opportunities at Gambro that make you very confident that you still get to those cost targets even with a little lower growth rate.
Thank you.
Yes well the synergies that Jay commented on earlier largely associated with structural cost and global manufacturing footprint and things of that nature -- very operational in nature.
In terms of our gross margins we're confident that we're on track with what we model in that regard.
I think clearly the -- and we modeled this in.
I think the traditional in center hemo market will always be very very price competitive and so I think we've been very realistic in how we forecasted pricing and margins going forward and that business I think the acute segment and frankly the PD segment in certain markets around the world can be more blank in terms of pricing and selling.
But net net for the broad renal business including the Gambro component I think our outlook in terms of pricing market dynamics and how that manifests itself in gross margins is pretty realistic.
Yeah and maybe just adding one comment back to the second quarter and our outlook I would also emphasize we had given a somewhat wider range for two reasons.
One is the volatility in FX but the second one is during the course of the second quarter likely we will execute our financing to establish the capital structure for Baxalta and have to adjust the existing debt portfolio potentially for Baxter.
And as a result there is some uncertainly around both timing and impact on interest expense.
So we've built some conservatism into the outlook to account for that eventuality.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart of Deutsche Bank.
Your question please.
Question and guess this will be our last call together as old Baxter so I had a couple of questions just throw them out there.
On the -- on the I guess the recombinant hemophilia side you had mentioned new patient reimbursement programs.
I was wondering if you could just comment on that.
Is that part of a strategy to kind of keep people locked in with ADVATE? Just wanted to get an update on the Georgia plant and how things are going? Whether or not that is tracking on schedule from a completion perspective and Sanquin and then lastly just gross margins.
You had guided to being down 250 to 300 basis points.
Came in a little bit better than that.
Just curious on what drove the favorability thanks.
Yes this is Ludwig.
Kristen thanks for your question.
With respect to hemophilia these new patient reimbursement programs we do this for access reasons.
Want to make sure that people have access to all products.
With respect to the Georgia plant it is on schedule.
As for supplies concerns we will grow faster than the market including the Sanquin opportunity.
You mentioned Sanquin is still on track to have the first product by the end of this year and we will be focused on European product.
Okay.
And Kristen as it relates to gross margin yes the gross margin did come in from a percentage base is a bit better than we expected in the quarter.
That certainly is driven by mix.
You saw BioScience grew very strongly.
Some modest price contribution as well as a bit than we expected but also on a reported basis we did have hedge gains as I mentioned and so those hedge gains while they do impact the gross margin they’re simply offsetting the underlying weakness in the currency that’s driving down the natural sales and gross margins that would otherwise be reported by the business.
So the mechanics here with the lower reported sales but the gross profit dollars being preserved by the hedges result in a higher reported gross margin and that contributed somewhere between 60 and 70 basis points to the reported gross margin percentage benefit in the quarter.
Just maybe a moment more on those hedges again I would emphasize that these hedge preserve value they do not in and of themselves create incremental value.
They are there to hedge underlying exposures.
By definition if the currencies are weak and those underlying exposures are worsening and the hedges again preserve value back to our original expectation.
But as it relates to year-over-year comparisons as we think to the back half of 2015 and then into 2016 the hedge rates we have in place in the first half of 2015 are very attractive particularly for the Euro north of $1.30 $1.30 per euro which clearly we put in a place a long time ago.
But the hedge rates we have in place for the back half of ’15 are less than that and certainly for 2016 are nowhere near that.
So while they do not create incremental value necessarily in 2015 for Baxter in 2016 if rates stay where they're at sales will continue to be depressed but our hedge rate will imply a gross margin percentage and value that will be less than what we're seeing now.
We estimate at current rate that that would be $70 million to $80 million of incremental headwind if you will in 2016 for the combined company which equates to about $0.10 to $0.12.
So at current rates we would see that in 2016 but again I just want to emphasize the hedge gains improve reported gross margin percentage but in and of themselves are not necessarily added to the bottom line because they’re there to hedge underlying exposure.
And can you update just for 2015 where we stand now with the total Baxter impacts from a foreign exchange perspective? Yeah it’s still very much where we expected excluding this anomaly in other income here in the quarter operationally in margins and of margin it's still very much where we had previously projected with again most of the negative impact somewhere in the order of two-thirds of the negative impact of the approximately $0.40 that we projected for the year we're going to experience in the back half of ‘15? So $0.40 in the back half of ’15 in total? $0.40 is our full year expectation so excluding the anomaly of the other income in Q1 we're very much in that range still for 2015 but about two-thirds of that will impact us in the back half of the year for the reasons I mentioned the hedge rates are at less attractive levels for us and frankly the Euro has deteriorated from when initially gave guidance as well.
Got it okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you Kristen.
Bruce Nudell of Credit Suisse is online with the question.
Please state your question.
Thanks for taking my question.
I have a couple for Ludwig.
Ludwig most of these net expense worked pretty well and the stock appears to have been handcuffed prior to the spend largely due to kind of perceived essential for us hemophilia specifically Factor VIII and FEIBA there SubQ approaches that are out there in the development stage that are potentially once a month they work in the presence of inhibitors potentially Baxter 826 may be better than once per week dosing but it’s not humans yet.
Just schematically what’s the company’s view broadly speaking as to whether or not we should view Factor VIII and FEIBA as a kind of midterm grower or a decliner and if it’s a decliner are there enough offsets of it really should matter for the new Baxalta.
This is a great question and you're going to feel the details on May 19.
So I hope you'll be able to join us.
But overall we believe that this business will continued to be a growth driver for us in all the different segments inhibitors as well as hemophilia.
What we're doing is we're building both breadth and depth in our portfolio.
The depth as you mentioned with 855 hopefully launched by the end of this year 826 and then moving to gene therapy.
Everything is related to factor replacement which is an advantage because the clinical the regulatory piece the manufacturing piece is very well understood.
So that’s the path that we’re on.
The breadth is that we’re going outside of hemophilia and you know that we have different opportunities in development.
So overall this will continue to be a growth driver for us but we’re going to give you much more details on May 19.
Thanks so much for that and just your commentary on HYQVIA is very interesting.
I think you said 1500 of the 15 000 patient equivalents in USPID are sub-QPID are now captured.
So like what’s the sealing for that and what are the plans for extending that to non-PID applications? Well we’re very pleased and we’re pleased in the first place because the feedback from the patient is very strong.
But it also gives value to the payer as well.
Overall we believe let’s say a decrease in total cost of therapy even though we were able to take a price premium because of the equivalents of the bioavailability of HYQVIA.
So I believe it’s a winner.
We’re in a position over the long-term to make this a leading product within PI.
The opportunities that we have on the development side is to go outside of PI that PI is about 20% to 25% of the total business.
So we’re starting Phase III program in CIBP as well as we continue to look at extending the label with NPI.
At this moment we’ll restrict it to adults.
So we’re very very pleased with the uptake six months in and we have 1500 patients out of 15 000.
Thanks so much.
Hey Stephanie we have time for two more questions.
Thank you.
Mike Weinstein of JPMorgan is on the line with the questions.
Please state your questions.
Thanks I just want to clarify as starting point just the FX impact commentary in the second quarter.
So the $0.11 Bob as you called out for this quarter that would be offset in the $0.40 so the actual on a reported basis I guess the FX impact for the year is more like $0.30 this year and then another $0.20 to $0.22 next year is that how we should think about it? Yeah I would definitely separate the anomalous situation that occurred here in Q1 in other income from the operational FX we expect to incur which again we continue to think is approximately $0.40 and at the op income line.
As it relates to 2016 my comments were specifically about the year-over-year potential for headwind related FX gains.
The overall FX picture is clearly going to be defined by how currency rates move between now and in the end of 2015 which they have been fairly volatile.
And plus we’ll have different impacts by business as well.
So I don’t want to get too far ahead of myself here as it relates to overall expectations on FX impact in 2016 other than to say we’ve hedged gains here are clearly going to be an issue at the current level of exchange rates and the current level of hedge rates we’ve been able to achieve thus far in 2016 and again I peg that at about $0.10 to $0.12 on a year-over-year basis.
Okay and then just to think about the $0.92 to $0.96 for the second quarter so if we’re analyzing that which I realize is a problem doing that but it’s all we've got to do with right now.
The incremental impact from there is the $0.40 of dyssynergies from the split and the net incremental FX impact as well was the whatever remaining erosion there is in cyclophosphamide is that fair? Well just to be clear when you say $0.40 of these synergies that’s an annual number.
Right.
That’s not going to incur in the back half of ‘15 but that’s our current estimate of the annual impact.
Initial dyssynergies from a run rate perspective I would tell you we’ll get into this more in May but both businesses are going to begin to do what we can to mitigate some of those dyssynergies even starting in 2016.
So that will be part of what we get into at the Investor Meeting here in a few weeks.
But from a run rate perspective in the back half of ’15 the $0.40 roughly well as I said approximately $300 million or so in overall dyssynergies.
So it’s a bit more than $0.40.
Right okay just a couple of quick product clarification you said in the prepared comments Bob considering that 817 that even though everything has gone well there you said regulatory submissions over the next several year.
So I was hoping you could clarify that because I think we’re assuming that you submit that product later this year and then 855 Ludwig if you could just comment on the dialogue with the FDA in the confidence and an approval later this year that would be great.
That’s all thanks.
817 recombinant VII so positive Phase 3 data we have to power test we have a long list of products within hemophilia.
We have to prioritize from a manufacturing perspective 817 is lower in the ranks and that’s the reason why we will not be submitting later this year.
With respect to 855 the regulatory review is ongoing.
No red flags at this moment and we believe that we still have the chance to get approval before yearend.
And Stephanie our last question? Our final question comes from Bob Hopkins of Bank of America.
Your question please.
Thanks very much for taking the question.
So the first question I have is previously you guys suggested that fully loaded operating margin for Baxter medical products at the time of the spin would be in the low double digit range.
And I was wondering in light of all the comments today about that business is that still a good number to think about in terms of the operating margin from the start or is that now a little more? Yeah Bob we haven’t been quite that specific.
What we simply said it would be at the very low end of the peers that for a number of reasons and frankly as we work through all of the details here on the separation including things like the pension that we currently have in the U.S.
which generates simply the amount of expense and how that gets a portion between the two companies and so on.
Again we lay all this out at the Investor Meeting but I just want to clarify we haven’t specified a start point if you will from an operating income margin perspective.
Well then maybe another way to asking the question is in terms of what’s happened at the business since the last call on Q4 you’ve talked a lot about currency I think we’ve got that straight there has been cost like they're the same.
Renal sounds a little worse is there any other major moving parts you want to comment on here like is pension different than it was at the beginning of the year in terms of some of the big buckets we should be thinking about that might have changed again since the last conference call.
Yeah the only thing I would say about pension is due to the fact that we are going to be have to split the pension that triggers a gap requirement for a re-measurement.
This is the process that normally happens at the end of the year where you rebase where you discount rate is your asset return assumption etcetera your mortality table the whole mind yards.
So there is a possibility that pension expense could be different.
I think directionally interest rates are slightly lower now than they were at the end of the year.
So there may be some impact.
I don’t think it's going to be super material.
Other than that and the factors that you've mentioned I don’t think there is anything else in the business we’ve talked about that has changed.
And then lastly really quickly are you guys going to address dividend policy at the upcoming meetings.
Obviously there is given the decline in earnings there has been a lot of discussion about the dividend.
Is that something you would lay out in detail at this meeting and just wondering how confident you are that you can maintain the total payout relative to what you’re currently paying? Yes as we said all along we're going to lay out the full financial outlook.
The sales the operating margins the cash flow generation capabilities of two businesses as well as capital structure in terms of bed allocation and capital allocation policies including dividend policy that will all be part of our discussions with investors on the 18 and 19 of May in New York.
Great thank you.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today’s Q&amp;A session and today’s conference call of Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
You may all disconnect and everyone have a great day.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Clare Trachtman Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Trachtman you may begin.
Thanks Stephanie.
Good afternoon and welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International; Jay Saccaro Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Bohaboy Corporate Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
On the call this afternoon we will be discussing Baxter's second quarter financial results and outlook for the remainder of 2015 before taking your questions.
I'd like to take a moment to highlight that our second quarter results are inclusive of the BioScience business as the official spinoff of Baxalta occurred subsequent to the close of the quarter on July 1.
Going forward the financial outlook and results for Baxter will be reported on a standalone basis excluding the BioScience business.
On the call today we will focus the discussion on the performance of new Baxter as Baxalta will host a conference call tomorrow to provide additional highlights on their performance in the second quarter and outlook for the remainder of the year.
We plan to post standalone new Baxter financial schedules for the quarterly periods of 2014 and the first half of 2015 to our investor relations website prior to our third quarter earnings release to enable year-over-year comparison.
So with that let me start our prepared remarks by reminding you that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
And of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition on today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this afternoon and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Clare.
Good afternoon and thanks to all of you for joining us.
Today's call is a transitional event for Baxter.
It comes on the heels of our successful spinoff of Baxalta.
The excitement level continues to build with the new Baxter as we embark on our journey as a standalone entity and begin to implement a number of the new strategic initiatives and margin improvement actions that will accelerate our profitable growth in the years ahead.
For the second quarter Baxter delivered a strong performance with adjusted earnings of $1 per diluted share exceeding our previous earnings guidance of $0.92 to $0.96 per diluted share.
Worldwide sales also exceeded our guidance increasing 3% on a constant currency basis and after adjusting for the impact of increased U.S.
competition for cyclophosphamide sales advanced 4%.
Certainly our biggest milestone for both the quarter and the year was the successful completion of the BioScience spinoff resulting in the establishment of two leading global healthcare companies.
The smooth transition that we've seen following the spin is a credit to the comprehensive planning and disciplined execution carried out by employees and leaders across both businesses.
And our strong second quarter results provide both Baxter and Baxalta with positive momentum as we continue our commitment to enhance value for all of our stakeholders.
As we laid out at our Investor Conference in May accelerating profitable growth is critical to Baxter's future success and is an objective that the entire management team is focused on.
We are not only striving to meet our profit growth goals but frankly we're aiming to exceed them.
Rebasing our cost structure optimizing the existing portfolio and launching numerous high-value differentiated products are the three focus areas that we will execute against over the long-range plan to drive the financial goals that we provided in May.
Many of these initiatives have been launched and are gaining traction.
So with this as a backdrop I'd like to highlight some of our recent achievements.
First addressing our standalone cost structure is crucial to meet our goal of increasing earnings at a rate meaningfully faster than sales growth and we're making progress on a number of fronts.
The Gambro integration program continues to advance.
We're on track to capture $100 million of cost synergies in 2015 and as we exit the year we'll have successfully achieved two-thirds of our $300 million 2017 cost synergy target.
And more broadly a comprehensive cost rebasing plan for Baxter is now under way and we're executing on key opportunities to reduce structural costs and increase efficiencies across the global enterprise.
Now that the spin's complete we've started to implement a number of substantive measures and look forward to sharing more information on these initiatives as we progress.
With respect to portfolio management during the quarter we took steps to optimize our global supply of IV solutions to address demand while also improving profitability.
In May we received FDA approval establishing our Sabiñánigo Spain facility as an approved manufacturing site for saline for the U.S.
market.
The FDA is also in the process of reviewing our application to source saline from our manufacturing site in Cuernavaca Mexico.
As all of you are aware saline has been listed in Drug Shortage Database as maintained by the FDA over the past two years.
So introducing a new supply from Spain and potentially Mexico to the U.S.
market will provide us greater flexibility to respond to market demand.
It also reflects our commitment to ensuring that we are optimizing our global supply and allocating or reallocating products to markets that generate enhanced returns aligned with our margin improvement goals.
Finally I want to share some recent highlights from our new product pipeline.
As you heard the leadership team emphasize at our Investor Conference innovation is Baxter's lifeblood and fundamental to sustained growth.
We have an exceptional pipeline that's well balanced among highly advanced new products meaningful improvements to our existing offerings and expanding our portfolio into new geographies.
All are focused on improving the quality of care while addressing key areas of medical need.
So some recent milestones include in our hospital products business the full-scale launch of the next generation SIGMA Spectrum infusion pump is now under way in the U.S.
Puerto Rico and Canada.
And I'm pleased to report that demand is strong.
The Spectrum platform has been honored with the best in class customer satisfaction award for four consecutive years and the latest generation pump includes several innovative features including an enhanced master drug library which helps to reduce pump-related adverse drug events and improve patient safety.
Customer response has been very positive and the SIGMA Spectrum is currently being used or in the process of being placed in six of the top seven hospital systems in the United States as ranked by the U.S.
News &amp; World Report.
In our renal business we initiated the launch of our AK98 in-center hemodialysis monitor in several markets in Eastern and Central Europe the Middle East and Africa.
The AK series is our flagship in-center HD monitor and this latest version offers advantages in usability and reliability while reducing the total cost of operation.
In the U.S.
we completed a 510(k) submission with the FDA for AMIA our next-generation peritoneal dialysis cycler now integrated with our SHARESOURCE web-based connectivity platform.
AMIA incorporates user-friendly features like a graphical touchscreen interface along with secure two-way connectivity that lets healthcare providers mobilely monitor treatment and adjust prescriptions as necessary.
And finally I'm also excited to share that the FDA has approved Baxter's investigational device exemption for our VIVIA home-based hemodialysis system.
This milestone helps clear the way for the final U.S.
study.
And as we've previously shared the VIVIA technology has the potential to transform home hemodialysis and allow more patients to benefit from high-dose HD in their homes.
These are just a few of the new products that we'll bring to market over the next several years.
Our pipeline is well-positioned to make a meaningful impact on both near and longer-term performance and I look forward to providing more details on the progress and potential of this pipeline going forward.
So with that I'll now turn the call over to Jay for a discussion of our second quarter results and outlook for the remainder of the year and then I'd like to make some closing comments before then opening up the call to Q&amp;A.
Jay please.
Thanks Bob and good afternoon everyone.
As Bob mentioned adjusted earnings in the second quarter of $1 per diluted share exceeded our previously issued guidance range of $0.92 to $0.96 per share.
GAAP earnings of $0.60 per diluted share included net after-tax special items totaling $218 million or $0.40 per diluted share primarily for costs associated with the company's planned separation as well as business development initiatives and intangible asset amortization.
These charges were partially offset by a benefit related to a legal settlement.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to the financial outlook for the third quarter and second half of 2015.
Starting with sales worldwide revenues of approximately $3.9 billion declined 6% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 3% which compares favorably to our guidance for the quarter of approximately 1%.
Excluding the impact of increased competition for U.S.
cyclophosphamide Baxter's sales advanced 4% globally.
Medical Products sales were in line with our expectations while strong growth across the BioScience portfolio contributed to the overachievement.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 1% or 5% after adjusting for cyclophosphamide.
International sales on a constant currency basis increased 4%.
In terms of individual business performance within Medical Products global sales of approximately $2.5 billion declined 9% and on a constant currency basis sales were comparable to the prior year period.
Adjusting both periods for the impact of U.S.
cyclophosphamide Medical Products sales rose 3% on a constant currency basis.
Within the product categories renal sales totaled $949 million reflecting a decline of 9% on a reported basis excluding the impact of foreign currency sales increased 3%.
Performance in the quarter was driven by mid to high single digit growth in our peritoneal dialysis business and double digit growth in the acute business.
This growth was offset by lower sales in our chronic hemodialysis business resulting from our previously mentioned decision to forego certain lower margin sales opportunities as well as the impact from increased austerity measures in Western Europe.
Within the fluid systems franchise sales of $518 million declined 3% and on a constant currency basis sales advanced 3%.
Performance was driven by the relaunch of the SIGMA Spectrum pump in the U.S.
during the quarter and strong demand and favorable pricing for IV fluids.
Sales in the integrated pharmacy solutions franchise totaled $548 million and declined 16%.
On a constant currency basis sales declined 8% as strength in our hospital pharmacy compounding service business was offset by lower cyclophosphamide sales in the U.S.
Excluding this impact sales in the category advanced 1%.
This growth was somewhat dampened given the tough year over year comparison as growth in the second quarter of 2014 was the highest quarterly growth for the year as product availability improved for certain nutritional products that had previously been supply constrained.
Revenues in surgical care which includes our inhaled and aesthetics and biosurgery products were $333 million in the quarter and declined 4%.
On a constant currency basis sales rose 4% driven by strong performance globally in the anesthesia business and solid growth of our core surgical sealants and hemostasis products including our market leading flow seal hemostatic matrix.
This performance was partially offset by lower sales of select non-core bio surgery products.
Finally sales in the biopharma solutions and other category which is our pharma partnering business totaled $116 million declining 6% on a reported basis.
Sales increased 2% on a constant currency basis driven by increased international demand from our contract manufacturing partners.
Global BioScience sales totaled approximately $1.4 billion in the quarter and declined 2% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis BioScience sales advanced 7%.
Additional details on the BioScience performance in the quarter will be available on the Baxalta earnings conference call tomorrow morning.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L gross margin in the quarter was 50.7% compared to 50.3% last year.
Positive mix select pricing improvements and foreign currency hedge gains more than offset the impact from increased generic competition for cyclophosphamide and incremental manufacturing investments made in the quarter.
SG&amp;A totaled $951 million and was comparable to prior-year levels.
On a constant currency basis SG&amp;A increased high single digits.
Growth in the quarter reflect continued investments in promotional and market activities to support new product launches in BioScience certain costs incurred to establish the regional commercial organizations for Baxalta and adjustments to bad debt reserves in emerging markets.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $292 million increased 1%.
On a constant currency basis R&amp;D advanced mid-teens and was driven primarily by increased investments in the BioScience business.
Interest expense was $30 million in the second quarter compared to $42 million last year as we benefited from a favorable rate and debt mix and higher capitalized interest.
Our second quarter ending debt balance included approximately $5 billion of debt issued by Baxalta in June which upon the spin has moved to their balance sheet as well as the retirement of $1.1 billion of commercial paper.
Subsequent to the second quarter we successfully tendered for $2.7 billion of outstanding bonds.
Both the commercial paper reduction and bond tenders were paid down with proceeds from the $4 billion cash dividend that Baxter received from Baxalta in June.
Other income totaled $15 million and included planned gains related to the sale of select equity investments.
The tax rate of 23.2% for the quarter was slightly above expectations driven by the one-time impact associated with completing select tax audits primarily outside the United States.
And as previously mentioned adjusted earnings of $1 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range.
Let me conclude my comments this morning by providing an update on our full-year sales guidance and outlook for both the third quarter and second half of the year.
But before I do that many of you have inquired about restated historical quarterly income statements.
We do plan to post adjusted non-GAAP financial statements to our website prior to our third quarter earnings call to provide investors with historical baseline financials for new Baxter.
This timing allows for the completion of the final carve-out process and associated discontinued operations presentation of the BioScience business as well as the confirmation of the baseline run rate associated with the transition services agreements we have set up with Baxalta for which billing will commence in the third quarter.
Now turning to our guidance and starting with sales on a constant currency basis we continue to expect sales for the full year 2015 for new Baxter to be comparable to 2014 primarily due to the impact of generic cyclophosphamide.
Adjusting both periods for this cyclophosphamide impact underlying growth is approximately 3%.
By franchise we continue to expect renal sales to increase approximately 3% and surgical care sales to advance 4% to 5%.
For fluid systems we expect sales growth of approximately 3%.
We now expect sales in the integrated pharmacy solutions franchise to decline mid-single digits.
As you know this category includes cyclophosphamide.
For 2015 we now estimate U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales of $190 million to $200 million.
This is an increase from our previous guidance and reflects a benefit of approximately $20 million in the second quarter and an incremental $20 million to $30 million benefit in the second half of the year relative to our original guidance.
While we continue to expect additional competitors to enter the market the timing of these entries remains uncertain.
Growth for the category after adjusting for cyclophosphamide is expected to increase mid-single digits.
And finally we expect the other category which includes our biopharma solutions franchise to decline approximately 10% as a major customer elects to self-manufacture products that were previously contract manufactured by Baxter.
Moving to the second half of 2015 our outlook remains consistent with the guidance we provided at our Investor Conference in May.
We expect second half sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency to be comparable to the prior year and after adjusting for U.S.
cyclophosphamide to increase approximately 3%.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to decline approximately 9%.
We anticipate the gross margin for new Baxter to be approximately 42% and we continue to expect an operating margin of approximately 9%.
As previously mentioned the 9% initial operating margin reflects the impact of stranded costs and incremental pension expenses following the spinoff of Baxalta.
It also incorporates investments we've made to enhance our manufacturing and quality systems.
For the second half we expect interest expense to total approximately $70 million as the benefit of our reduced debt levels is more than offset by lower levels of capitalized interest.
We expect other income of approximately $15 million reflecting a benefit from the sale of select equity investments in the back half of the year.
Given the geographic mix of our earnings for new Baxter we expect a tax rate of approximately 20% and for the balance of the year we expect an average share count of approximately 550 million shares.
As stated in our press release we expect adjusted earnings excluding special items of $0.58 to $0.62 per diluted share.
Specific to the third quarter we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency to be comparable to the prior year and after adjusting for cyclophosphamide to increase approximately 3%.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to decline approximately 9% and we expect earnings from continuing operations excluding special items of $0.29 to $0.31 per diluted share.
Before we open up the call for Q&amp;A I'd now like to turn the call back over to Bob for some closing comments.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Jay.
As part of our roadshow efforts following the May Investor Conference we had the opportunity to meet with a significant number of both current and also potential investors.
Given that this today is really the first public forum that we've had since the Investor Conference I wanted to take just a moment to address and expand upon three key topics that emerged during many of the meetings.
The first topic relates to our margin profile.
The second relates to our plans for capital allocation and the last topic centers on management succession.
So starting with our margin profile I can tell you the confidence that we have in the margin expansion targets we provided in May has only been enhanced in the subsequent weeks.
Momentum is building across the organization and as some of our recent highlights suggest we're already making progress on a number of our margin improvement initiatives.
Enhancing profitability is the top priority for new Baxter and while our short-term profitability is impacted by certain discrete factors we know what these are and will be addressing them along with our broader cost structure in the months ahead.
The spinoff of Baxalta has provided us an opportunity to clearly evaluate our entire cost structure and we're committed to aggressively addressing our cost position to ensure that it's aligned with our new business profile.
We've demonstrated that we can achieve these targets as we've been successful in executing against the cost reduction initiatives identified as part of the Gambro acquisition and as mentioned are on pace to achieve our $300 million target by 2017.
And to be clear the margin targets that we presented in May are not an end state.
Both Jay and I emphasized in our prepared comments at the Investor Conference that we expect margin expansion to continue well beyond 2020.
As we progress we'll continue to look for additional actions to not only accelerate profitability but drive overall margin improvement beyond the targets identified.
Turning to capital allocation and in particular our use of the retained Baxalta equity stake.
The decision to retain the stake affords us the opportunity to restructure our balance sheet in a highly tax-efficient manner.
As we've shared previously we intend to use the proceeds of the stake to further reduce debt repurchase Baxter shares and to make a contribution to the domestic pension plan pending regulatory approval.
Over the next 18 months we'll leverage a combination of these activities to arrive at an optimal mix that maximizes the value to Baxter and our shareholders while minimizing the fees and other execution costs resulting from these activities.
By reducing debt we will create capacity for additional borrowing as appropriate to pursue organic and inorganic growth opportunities while remaining within our targeted leverage ratios.
As you may have seen this afternoon we declared our first dividend as a standalone company.
The payout ratio is in line with the target that we shared in May of approximately 35% of adjusted net income and places us at the high end of our peer set.
Going forward we expect to grow our dividend distribution commensurate with earnings growth and we remain committed to returning meaningful value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Regarding M&amp;A while it's not included in our initial financial projections going forward we do expect M&amp;A to be a key component of our strategy to accelerate profitable growth.
In the near term our M&amp;A activities will be somewhat constrained by both organizational and financial capacity.
Over the next 12 months however as we enhance our balance sheet and progress on our post-spin margin improvement initiatives we'll have significant flexibility to take full advantage of opportunities that are aligned with our business model and augment our channel strength and geographic presence.
The last topic I wanted to address this afternoon and expand upon relates to the subject of succession planning.
Given my tenure as CEO which now is well over 11 years and my age this was a very natural question that arose in most of the road show meetings.
When I came forward to the board over a year ago to recommend that we consider the spinoff of BioScience the board discussed succession planning and concluded that an undertaking of this magnitude would be enhanced by my continued involvement throughout to maintain stability within the organization ensure that the timetable of the spinoff and all associated activities were achieved and set the stage in the best possible way for both companies to be successful.
At that time I committed to the board that I would agree to serve as CEO of new Baxter long enough to ensure that our goals were clearly defined that the entire organization was aligned with what we needed to accomplish and that our progress toward our goals and our confidence in attaining them if not exceeding those goals was evident.
While the board naturally is always working to ensure a plan of succession with the spinoff successfully completed the board is again actively taking up the subject of my succession and as part of that process has formed a working group of the board to manage the search process and has retained a search firm to assist in this regard.
The board knows that I'm available as support in the succession process in every way and I'm willing to serve in whatever capacity the board feels will provide value.
While a specific timetable has not been established we did want to take advantage of this opportunity to update you on the topic and of course we'll share information as appropriate going forward.
So in closing this is truly a new day at Baxter.
The road ahead offers significant opportunities and we have the strategies in place to leverage these opportunities to deliver enhanced value for all of our stakeholders.
The recent spinoff creates the potential for us to have an even greater impact on the lives of our patients as we accelerate performance globally.
We're already making it happen along the key trajectories that I've outlined here.
Yet through it all we're staying true to the same fundamentals that have made us a recognized and trusted global market leader for over 80 years: innovation quality efficiency market access and improved clinical outcomes for patients worldwide.
So with that I think we can now open up the call to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
Our first question comes from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Can you hear me okay? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We can Bob.
Go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
So I just want to take the opportunity Bob to follow up on your comment about succession and your comment about you want to wait until progress is evident.
Is it reasonable to assume that by early 2016 we're going to know what kind of progress or that progress would be evident? I'm just trying to put some timeframes around your commentary around succession.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I appreciate the follow-up question Bob and again I don't want to be specific in terms of dates.
The reason I did mention what I did is it's fair to characterize this to say what I would call a front burner issue with the board.
I mean the fact of the matter is our board has had in place through the governance committee an established succession plan process for a long time.
And in fact just to provide a little color for everyone we had discussions on this going back over the last few years.
But clearly as we approach the spinoff we kind of took the notion of succession and set it up on the shelf a little bit.
I will say the decision to spin off BioScience clearly wasn't a result of any succession planning but the reality is as a result of the spinoff it did answer the succession question for that big piece of the business.
It also allows the board to go forward now and evaluate succession in the context of a medical products/medical device company which in terms of experience and so on can be a much more focused search I think.
So now given the fact that the spin has taken place recognizing the progress and the momentum that's building at new Baxter as I said this has now become a new priority.
And as I said in my prepared comments with that the board has formed a working group to manage the process retained a search firm.
I don't want to get into all the specifics of that including timing other than to say I wouldn't have raised it in this sense if now that the spin has been completed we've got renewed enthusiasm energy and focus and alignment behind what we want to do at new BAX and now is appropriate for the board to reengage on this and that's why I wanted to comment on this this afternoon.
Great.
That's very helpful.
So I think I'm hearing what I think I'm hearing from you it doesn't sound unreasonable that something could happen in 2016 just kind of hearing the things that you just mentioned.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
That's not unreasonable at all.
Okay.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It's not unreasonable at all.
The fact of the matter is we retained a search firm shortly after the spin.
We didn't do it before then because there's no secrets in the world.
Stability in this organization is important and we intentionally as I said kind of put that on the shelf until the spin was completed.
But shortly thereafter we formalized it and particularly with our employees I always try to be forthright and transparent in communications and that's another reason why I wanted to communicate it today so they have some expectation in that regard.
Great.
And then just one really quick one for Jay.
Given your back half guidance can you just give us a sense as to the revenue contribution from cyclo in the back half and then the total debt of new Baxter in the back half that drives that interest expense number you mentioned? Thank you.
Yeah certainly.
As far as cyclo in the second half of the year we currently expect approximately $70 million in the second half of the year which is a slight increase over our prior guidance.
And then as far as the new Baxter debt balance in the second half of the year we completed a debt tender successfully as I commented on in my prepared remarks.
At this stage we're not reflecting any utilization of the retained stake beyond that.
But overall from a debt standpoint post-spin we're anticipating approximately $6.3 billion in debt which reflects the benefit of utilizing the cash from the cash dividend from Baxalta to retire certain debt and commercial paper.
So that's the current expectation.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Inc.</span></strong> I wanted to ask a question I guess about the overall guidance and any thoughts you have on margins.
I mean specifically on the guidance you gave a second half number.
Can you put that in context in terms of what that implies for earnings power for the year? And then also talk about some of the levers that you have year-over-year and whether there's been any change to your thoughts on margin expectations for next year? Yeah.
I would say our margin expectations for the second half of the year first let's start with that are very consistent with what we shared in the Investor Conference.
So the 9% operating margin reflects our expectation around start point and there are a number of factors that are impacting that 9%.
As we move forward we are increasingly confident in our ability to achieve our long-term margin projections.
Having said that I don't think it's appropriate at this stage to modify our target for next year.
As you know we expect 100 basis points of improvement relative to the second half.
So 10% margin for next year and that would include approximately 100 basis points of negative drag from cyclo.
So really the organic improvement would be approximately 200 basis points relative to the second half of this year.
As it relates to the full year comparables and the earnings power given the complexities of a mid-year split we're really not in a position at this stage to comment on new Baxter as a standalone enterprise.
We reported Q2 as a consolidated enterprise.
We expect later in the year as we approach the Q3 earnings call we'll have the ability to report Baxalta not only from a discontinued operations basis but also at that stage reflect the transition service agreements and the actual consumption of transition services by Baxalta.
We'll start billing for that those services that we provide next month.
So from an overall standpoint the first half of the year really is a Baxter consolidated view until we modify that later in the year.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Matt this is Bob.
Maybe just to add some higher-level color.
It's really too early subsequent to the Investor Conference for us to modify either our outlook for this year or next year.
But I think probably as you gathered from our commentary in our prepared remarks we increasingly are confident in our ability to achieve what we disclosed to everybody and what we project at the Investor Conference.
I think the momentum is building and just to reiterate our aspiration if we can do better we're totally committed to do that over the next five years in the LRP and certainly subsequent to 2020.
So good momentum building but it's too early in the game to I think to modify any of our financial projections.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot for the color.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good afternoon everybody.
Hi Dave.
Hey Jay.
Hey Bob.
I wanted just to start with a couple questions just on the business.
If you look at very specifically I guess the fluid systems franchise it looks like in the U.S.
that business continues to do a little bit better than one might expect your end markets to be growing at right now.
Can you just sort of talk about the key drivers underpinning the strength in the U.S.
and to what extent these type of growth rates are sustainable? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well just maybe high-level comment then I can maybe tee it up for Jay for more specifics.
Some of the strength that you're seeing demonstrated is really a result of some pricing power pricing latitude in the U.S..
The underlying volume is I think pretty consistent with what we've been generating.
As you now it's a fairly low growth market on a volume basis but what you're seeing the strength from is really in the core solutions business is really pricing but then of course we're starting to pick up momentum more broadly with the relaunch of the SIGMA Spectrum.
And I will tell you again and you know this Dave but for the others that are calling in we projected in the long range plan to recover 5 of the 10 share point loss within the LRP.
And early days with orders we have in hand and what we expect this year I would anticipate that we're going to get at least 1 share point of 5 back before the end of the year.
So that's part of the momentum that's building there and that's contributing to the strength as well.
Jay I don't know if there's any.
No nothing to add.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Specifics you want to add to that.
Those are the key components David.
Okay that's helpful.
Then maybe turning just to the surgical care franchise.
That's a business that looks like it's maybe doing a little bit better but obviously an area that is fairly intense on the pricing competition side.
Do you think this is a business that we can see accelerate on a go-forward basis particularly as sort of evidence continues to come through on better U.S.
hospital volumes and surgical volumes or just a franchise that's sort of permanently constrained to sort of a lower single digit growth rate? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So two different pieces here and again I'll ask Jay and Clare and Scott to add commentary as appropriate.
For the biosurgery what historically we've classified as the biosurgery business two different stories: a fairly mature market in the U.S.
and growing with surgical procedures with some additional penetration.
The opportunity for growth longer term is clearly O-U.S.
and that's an area of additional promotional investment and focus going forward.
The anesthesia business continues to perform quite well.
The adoption of inhalation anesthetic agents in emerging and developing markets continues to grow.
As you know we have the only full line of inhalation gases and Suprane continues to perform very well.
So the anesthesia business is a little different than the biosurgery business if you will not constituting our surgical care franchise.
But I think realistically the kind of growth that we projected at the Investor Conference in the range of 4% to 5% at this point continues to be a prudent expectation.
I wouldn't increase expectations beyond that at this stage.
And guys you want to add anything to that? No.
That's good answers.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Dave.
Our next question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Just Jay a quick question on the Baxalta stake.
I know you talked about the balance sheet moves here in the back half of the year.
But obviously a lot of what you've talked about implies you sell a material portion of the Baxalta stake before the end of 2016.
So are there any special dynamics underpinning the timing of that sale process? Meaning should we expect it to be more immediate post the spin or closer to the end of 2016? And then I have a quick follow-up.
Yeah David if you think about our objectives with the Baxalta stake it's really to maximize the value of the stake to Baxter.
And as part of that we're going to look to carefully evaluate the different levers that we have and be opportunistic in terms of timing and amounts in each.
And so I wouldn't say specifically there is a specific time that we're targeting.
We're probably not going to do anything in the first 60 days allow the Baxalta stock price to stabilize and we would probably not wait until we get too close to the 18 month timeframe because as you know there are very significant tax benefits to achieving our objectives within the 18 month timeframe.
Beyond that we expect to start certain transactions this year and then we'll do a number of other transactions next year but we haven't reflected the benefit in reduced share count or reduced interest expense for late-year transactions that we're currently contemplating.
The key inputs as we think about this with respect to the pension we're going to carefully evaluate the prevailing interest rate environment because we don't want to oversize the pension contribution depending on the size of that liability.
We're going to carefully evaluate the evolution of the Baxalta stock price and then the receptivity to the anticipated receptivity from Baxter debtholders and Baxter shareholders to the different tactics that we're pursuing.
So those are some of the key inputs that we're evaluating as we look at timing and sizing of the different transactions.
At this stage I wouldn't expect one very large transaction but more multiple transactions.
Okay that's very helpful color Jay.
And then Bob I just want to come back to renal for a second here.
I feel like it's sort of a tale of two cities.
You have great enthusiasm around CRRT and some positive secular tailwinds and you have the more traditional HD business which is perhaps a little sluggish.
So what assumptions are you making for price erosion in the traditional HD business? You talked about some of those in this quarter.
How much of this is coming from true austerity how much is coming from direct decisions you're making about mix and how much is just coming from frankly competitors using price as a weapon in the channel? Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's probably some of each.
Thanks for the question Dave.
And I'll play it back in and I'll ask the team to contribute as appropriate.
It's kind of a tale of three cities maybe.
One is the acute piece in the hospital which continues to grow very nicely double digits and higher margin.
And we continue to increase our focus on that.
The traditional in-center hemodialysis business which I'll come back to in a second and then the third leg of courses is peritoneal dialysis which continues to be an attractive growth vehicle and also an area that has pricing latitude going for it as well.
So the area that I think used the word sluggish is probably a fair way to describe the traditional in-center hemo business although I would say that having the full product line we're seeing that manifest itself in helping us on the PD business as well.
So I think increasingly going forward we have to look at this business in its totality.
So on a constant currency basis it grew 3% in the third quarter.
As you know we're projecting the long-term growth to be in the 5% to 6% range and that will be driven over time by capacity expansions later in 2016 with dialyzer expansion and then augmented by PD capacity expansion largely in Asia subsequent to that.
And then augmenting that of course are the new products which we're very excited about.
So let me come back then to the traditional in-center piece.
It is a combination of things.
We are being more discerning relative to the profitability of that business.
I think we commented in the first quarter about some tenders that candidly we walked away from because of the returns.
It is a price competitive business and we have assumed in answer to your question specifically price erosion for that segment over the LRP on the very low single digits but I think a practical recognition of the continued competitive nature of that.
And then there are austerity measures one of which was recently implemented in France where as a matter of policy they've said we want to extend the useful life of monitors from seven years to 10 years.
So that obviously has an impact on revenue of monitors and I would emphasize our profitability on monitors is at the low end and whether it's an old monitor or a new monitor they chew up the same number of dialyzers and frankly it reduces our CapEx to some degree as well.
So net-net I'm not sure on the bottom line how significant that is but it is a contributing factor to the top line.
So I touched on a number of things there.
I think I've answered each of your specific questions.
I'll stop there.
Does that address your questions David? Yes Bob.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
So Jay a quick one first.
The FX hedges you mentioned on the gross margin line how much did they contribute in the quarter? And then Bob I just want to follow up Bob Hopkins' discussion with you on succession.
So it sounded like a few weeks ago let's call it late June you were talking about the dialogue with the board being you need to get the spin and new Baxter if you would off on the right foot and you wanted to see that through.
But it sounds like now what you're saying is it's more likely that a new CEO is on board at some point in 2016.
Just want to make sure we're hearing that correctly.
Thanks.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I said it was possible that a new CEO could be on board in 2016.
The reality is I think there has been benefit and will continue to be benefit by my continued involvement post-spin for a lot of different reasons.
But the reality is the progress we're making I think that the focus and the momentum and the alignment behind what we need to do is really good.
And I'm going to be 65 in January and I've been around almost 111/2 years and so inevitably this has to be dealt with.
So I think actually the stage is set very nicely for the board now to do what they have a primary responsibility of doing is to revisit the issue of succession now that the spin has been successfully executed and transition and succession has been defined for Baxalta now to focus on the Baxter piece.
So I think that we can achieve the objective of stability post-spin.
I intentionally didn't define a specific date but I did respond to Bob's question in the fashion that you reiterated and I think that's fair.
So I think it's a good plan where all objectives can be effectively met.
And then Jay.
Mike yeah on your gross margin hedge question we did have the benefit of $25 million of hedges in the second quarter on the gross margin line.
Wow.
Okay.
And then maybe just one follow-up.
And this is Jay probably for you.
One of the discussions coming out of the analyst meeting on new Baxter is the spread or disconnect if you would between the net income and free cash flow.
I think you guys guided to basically what amounted to about $1.40 in cash earnings depending on what the share count is next year and the timing of some of what you do with Baxalta.
And that compares to free cash flow of $400 million which would be about $0.75 $0.80.
And so can you just talk a little bit about that quote-unquote "disconnect" or that spread and then how you think about that narrowing if you would over the next several years? Thanks.
Great.
So the primary driver of the spread between operating income or cash earnings and free cash flow relates to in the short term CapEx.
As you know Mike our business is capital intensive.
A lot of that has to do with the fact that we're in the IV and PD business and those have a higher capital burn.
In addition to that in the near term we've announced a number of important capacity expansion projects that start to benefit sales in 2016.
The three major projects that we have ongoing that we'll complete in 2016 we have a China PD expansion we have a Thai PD expansion and we have the Opelika dialyzer capacity expansion.
All of these are revenue generating.
All of these generate positive economics for Baxter but they do have the impact in the near term of depressing free cash flow relative to operating income.
Over time as we migrate and improve the operating margin of the business we will hold CapEx flat or even as I said in the Investor Conference we'll see a decline in CapEx and so the relationship between free cash flow and operating income becomes much more normalized.
Mike but having said all of this I want to emphasize that the entire management team is very much focused on free cash flow generation and while we have a plan on CapEx we are extremely focused on every single capital project to ensure that those dollars are dollars that create economic value for the company.
So that's a little background color and some further information for you.
That's good.
Thank you Jay.
Our next question comes from Danielle Antalffy with Leerink Partners.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks so much for taking the question.
Bob just a follow-up on a question from earlier regarding the sales outlook.
I mean this was obviously a very strong sales growth quarter so I was hoping you could help me better understand – I guess I should say very strong better than expected.
So I was hoping you could help me better understand the sort of near to medium term.
I mean actually let me ask it medium to longer term headwinds that make you think that you can't grow faster than that sort of long term 4% sales growth target that you put out at the analyst meeting.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well actually – thanks for the question Danielle.
I mean we need to pick up the pace a little bit right now to get to the 4%.
We were at 3% for the quarter.
So we know the primary driver for that will be with the capacity expansions in renal both dialyzers and PD capacity as well as momentum with the SIGMA Spectrum relaunch and the other new products.
To get ahead of ourselves first of all if you adjust – if you go back to the 4% CAGR that we talked about over the LRP at the Investor Conference adjusting for cyclophosphamide that's actually closer to 5%.
So that means you're really growing from a current run rate of 3% up to 5%.
And the other point that I would reiterate is as part of our margin improvement program and really addressing the product portfolio we are going to aggressively evaluate certain product categories in certain geographies which may result in us exiting those product lines in certain geographies which obviously has a depressing effect on the top line as well.
So we do have some momentum implicit in our long-term projections.
But we wanted to also reflect the fact that we are going to be proactively addressing portfolio in a way that may result to some decreases in revenue not unlike the tender position we took in the first quarter on hemodialysis monitors.
So I think overall it's balanced.
I think our long range sales projection in the LRP is very achievable.
Adjusting for cyclophosphamide I think it's pretty stable and fairly predictable and again of course it doesn't reflect anything and therefore not only M&amp;A obviously but any further business development as well.
So I think Danielle it's a pretty balanced forecast both for the rest of the year 2016 and throughout the LRP.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just to follow up on your comment on business development M&amp;A given the fact that the board is actively now searching for your successor is it fair to assume that nothing major will happen on the business development side until a new CEO is in place? Or are you still actively looking to do things for the rest of your tenure? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Look we're continuously looking at deals.
Our kind of other than Gambro our historical MO of doing kind of bolt-on deals and so on we certainly we conceivably can do over the next 12 months.
But as a practical matter we have financial constraints.
So the notion of a transformational deal is interesting and we can talk about it in a hypothetical context but as a practical matter in the short term we don't have the financial wherewithal to do anything in the short-term.
And if that's the case then to speculate one way or the other telegraph intent ahead of time doesn't seem to serve any stakeholder's interest effectively.
The Gambro deal I think represents the fact that we're willing to think bigger if the value is there.
And whether it's me or a successor I think there's an open-mindedness to that but again right now today it's not a practical option just due to constraints right financial constraints.
Not to mention I would say organizationally we're still completing the Gambro integration.
This company has been consumed over the last 12 months as a result of the spinoff which has been the number one priority and appropriately so because I believe we'll look back and realize that that decision will have generated significant value for all stakeholders and all shareholders for both companies.
Now that that's done we refocus our attention on other priorities.
And but I think a transformational deal in the next say 12 months or something it just isn't in the offing because we don't have the financial latitude to do it.
Okay.
Thanks so much Stephanie this is Clare.
We have time for two more questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kristen Stewart with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just wanted to go back to Gambro and just better understanding on what's changed on the sales growth forecast because it seems like you're hitting the metrics from a cost synergies perspective but the sales growth outlook seems to be very different.
It was one that was at least at the time of acquisition supposed to accelerate the overall growth profile of Baxter as a whole.
And obviously with them there the Medical Products business and here we are talking about the HD business only growing 2% to 3% over the long range plan.
That was certainly not something that was my impression that was going to be the growth forecast for Gambro at the time of the deal.
So what's really changed about that business or the market that's really leading that Gambro or maybe just the market to be a lot slower now versus just only a couple years ago? Bob or Jay.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Kristin thanks for the questions.
So let me start at a high level okay.
I'm really glad that we did the Gambro deal.
Things always change in big acquisitions but looking back now a year-and-a-half on or thereabouts almost two years on now I'm really glad we did the deal.
Things always turn out differently than what you anticipate.
And you're absolutely right.
The core – and it's really a follow-on to commentary I made earlier.
I don't know if it was David Lewis or David Roman's question I can't recall in terms of the traditional in-center hemo business okay.
Because that has fallen behind what our expectations are so your commentary in that regard is spot on.
I would agree with that.
But if you take a step back and look at the total deal first of all much of the value of the deal more so than typically in acquisitions was based upon the cost reduction.
And as we've commented today we're well on track to achieve – frankly it's not – slightly exceed that $300 million target so that's really positive.
In terms of the higher growth higher margin business the in-center CRRT that's moving along totally in accordance with our expectation.
The other thing that has been favorable and I think going forward increasingly you have to look at our renal performance in aggregate.
Part of the rationale was to complete the full product line thereby enabling us to participate in commercial opportunities where previously perhaps we didn't because we didn't have all the clubs in our bag so to speak in the traditional in-center piece.
And so the commercial synergies that we're getting particularly on PD and so on have certainly achieved if not exceeded our expectation.
The piece that has been slower is the traditional in-center piece.
Part of it is market driven and part of it is organizationally driven.
I think the integration of the commercial organizations has been more challenging than what we anticipated bringing the Gambro and the Baxter pieces together including change out of leader – most of this business as you know is outside the U.S.
so it's a byproduct of 50 general managers around the world and making sure the right leaders are in the right place in each market.
And so the sorting out process in that regard has been somewhat more challenging than we had anticipated in the modeling.
And secondarily as we've converted from distributors to going direct which is our mode of doing business as you know while we fully anticipated that as a result of the due diligence there have been some challenges associated with converting from distributors largely in emerging developing markets in ways that we didn't anticipate (58:35).
So it's been slower than we anticipated.
That was operationally related.
Then in terms of the marketplace frankly in terms of the pricing it's performing pretty much in accordance with what we modeled.
We anticipate in the acquisition analysis that this was and would continue to be pricing competitive.
We didn't anticipate perhaps some of the austerity measures.
I cited just one recently in France.
And then the other piece of it is we have been consistent with our overall priority at new BAX going forward more discerning and more demanding in terms of returns through our new mindset of new Baxter and that's had an impact in terms of some of the profitability.
So I touched on a lot of it but I really – maybe I'll just end where I started Kristen which is I'm very pleased that we did the deal for a lot of different reasons and confident that the value clearly is going to be generated over the long term.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And there's no update on the home hemodialysis timelines for the U.S.
relative to the - Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I had – Clare make sure I don't misspeak.
Obviously we announced we said that we've filed.
The FDA accepted the investigational device exemption so that allows us to start the U.S.
trial which we continue to expect that will begin before the end of the year with filing likely sometime in the 2017 timeframe and a launch in 2018 consistent with what we shared at the Investor Conference in May.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then for Jay just in terms of the Baxalta stakes sorry if I missed this.
Can you comment on just how the split will be in terms of how much will go towards the U.S.
pension? I think it was about $1 billion.
And how much will go towards paying down debt or how much will just go towards acquisitions and whatnot or just will become cash on the balance sheet? And I think there was something in one of the filings that mentioned a potential stock exchange as well.
Yes.
So Kristen there's really three uses for the retained stake pension a stock for stock exchange or split off as it's termed and a stock for debt exchange which essentially amounts to a secondary offering coupled with a debt buyback.
So those are the three vehicles that we're currently evaluating each of them to the extent that we pursue them within an 18 month window are tax-free uses of the stake.
So what we've said is we expect a 50 basis point benefit from contributions to the pension which would imply approximately a $600 million contribution to the pension.
But frankly the sizing of that ultimate contribution will very much depend upon the prevailing interest rate environment.
We don't want to go well north of 100% funded status.
As we sit today we're at roughly 80% and so this would close a portion of that gap but it wouldn't close all the gap.
To the extent that interest rates rise between now and year-end when we would contemplate a transaction of this nature we're going to watch that very carefully.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
As it relates to the other two pieces it really is going to depend upon our ability to execute those transactions with the least amount of cost.
Because to the extent that we over delever we always have the opportunity to lever back up to buy shares or to pursue M&amp;A.
The important thing is we want to use the retained stake with the limited the least amount of economic loss to Baxter so that we're going to be very thoughtful about transaction costs and premiums and things of that nature.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our final question comes from Josh Jennings with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good evening.
Thanks a lot.
Just wanted a quick question on the operating margin front.
Can you talk about the operating margin baseline and trajectories for the four business units relative to the corporate margins? Or is there one or two units that has more depressed margins where you can give us some more specifics or granularity on how the margin turnaround can be achieved? We really haven't disclosed margins by segment or area except to say that there are certain businesses that carry a higher margin than the Baxter average and those businesses include the CRRT business our surgical care business our nutrition business within integrated pharmacy systems.
Those are a few of the businesses which carry a higher margin than the corporate average.
In the case of those businesses our full expectation is to grow them as fast as we can with promotional investments to support that.
By doing that we expect to see a positive benefit on the margin.
There are other categories of businesses which we would characterize as having lower margins.
And what we've said is it's really not a global question to ask but it's more specific than that.
In certain products in certain geographies we have margins that are below our corporate target.
With respect to those businesses our expectations are we're either going to fix shrink or exit those businesses over time.
So we have a very disciplined framework in place but it's a more fine-tuned methodology than a global methodology with businesses that have lower margins or higher margins.
Because frankly in some businesses that may have a lower margin in one market that margin may be dramatically different in another market depending on the nature of the dynamic.
Great.
And just on that portfolio optimization point that you brought up can you talk about the pace of product pruning or exiting suboptimal geographies? You've already started in renal.
It sounds like you do have strategic plans in place but is this going to depend on balancing this portfolio optimization and then loss of revenues and how that flows down to the bottom line? Yeah so we've completed the portfolio analysis.
We have clear line of sight to the fully loaded profitability and the economic returns of our businesses.
But before we exit a business our first expectation is that our general managers will attempt to fix it and that takes some time in certain instances.
So the pace at which we do this will really be gated by how successful we are in turning around some of these businesses or not.
And to the extent that we're not we will make very clear and definitive decisions about exit but only after we've given the opportunity to the operations team to actually fix that business.
Bob I don't know if you want to add anything to that? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All I would say is but that's not going to be a protracted period of time.
Yeah.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> There will be a sense of urgency on this.
But there is a disciplined process as Jay described Josh.
Excellent.
Thank you very much.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operation Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Clare Trachtman Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Trachtman you may begin.
Thanks Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome to our Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today are Bob Parkinson CEO and Chairman of Baxter International.
Jay Saccaro Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Bohaboy Corporate Vice President Investor Relations and Treasurer.
On the call this morning we will be discussing Baxter's Third Quarter Financial results and outlook for the remainder of 2015 before taking your questions.
Before we review our financial performance in the quarter I'd like to mention that this morning we issued an 8-K detailing the 2014 and 2015 quarterly income statements for Baxter on a stand-alone non-GAAP basis.
Today's review of the results for the third quarter of 2015 and outlook for the remainder of the year will reflect comparisons to the 2014 ongoing baseline detailed in the 8-K filing.
With that let me start our prepared remarks by reminding everyone that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product developments and regulatory matters contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
And of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release and our SEC filings for more details concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition on today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob Parkinson.
Bob? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Clare.
Good morning and thanks to all of you joining us.
We're very pleased to report strong performance for the third quarter our first as a stand-alone leading medical products company.
These results clearly demonstrate the momentum our organization has established following the spin-off of Baxalta momentum upon which we will build to further accelerate profitable growth in the quarters and the years ahead.
As you saw in our press release this morning for the third quarter Baxter delivered adjusted earnings of $0.41 per diluted share significantly exceeding our guidance of $0.29 to $0.31 per diluted share.
On a constant currency basis worldwide sales increased 2% and also exceeded our guidance.
After adjusting for foreign exchange and the impact of increased U.S.
competition for cyclophosphamide sales advanced 3%.
Results in the quarter benefited from a favorable product mix lower operating expenses and other income resulting from foreign exchange related gains.
As you know at our – excuse me – at our May Investor Conference we outlined a number of initiatives focused on expanding margins and accelerating profitable growth.
These measures are gaining traction as evidenced by our strong third quarter performance.
While these are still early days the initial results reinforce our confidence that we're clearly on the right path to achieve our financial objectives which will create value for our shareholders patients employees and other stakeholders.
And as we've repeatedly stated our aspiration remains to exceed the profitability targets that we had laid out at that Investor Conference.
As you'll recall we're executing a three-pronged strategy to accelerate profitable growth focused on rebasing our cost structure optimizing our existing products and services through rigorous portfolio management and finally expanding our offering of high valued differentiated products through execution of our robust new product pipeline.
I want to share a few highlights from the quarter in each of these areas to demonstrate the substantive progress that we're making on this journey.
So let me start with cost structure.
Back in May we acknowledged the compelling need to rebase our structural cost to better align our expense base with the resource requirements of our new stand-alone enterprise.
During the quarter we took an important step in this regard initiating a global workforce reduction program representing approximately 5% of all non-manufacturing payroll.
This action is expected to generate approximately $130 million in annual savings once complete and is one of the first that we've taken to address our cost structure.
As we move forward we'll continue to evaluate our support levels to ensure that they're appropriate.
In addition post separation we've implemented an array of expense controls targeting discretionary spending categories that will reduce our ongoing spend moving forward.
Collectively these actions will ensure that we enter 2016 with a leaner cost base that supports our new business profile and financial goals.
And I can assure you that our aggressive focus in this area will continue in the months to come as we pursue additional opportunities to increase efficiency and reduce structural cost.
The second area that we emphasized in May was successfully managing and optimizing our existing product portfolio to improve operating performance.
And as we've previously mentioned we're taking a very disciplined approach with respect to our top line growth opportunities to ensure that they're aligned with our margin improvement objectives and deliver appropriate returns.
This year there have been certain international tenders that we have opted not to pursue because they would not deliver benefits aligned with our profit improvement goals.
More broadly we're applying this same discipline to each the product areas and geographies we serve.
And we'll evaluate our presence in select markets to ensure it's aligned with our targeted return profile.
And going forward you can expect regular updates on the progress being made in this important area.
We know emerging market performance has been the key topic of discussion for investors.
These geographies play an important role in our growth strategy.
And while we're certainly not immune to the macro challenges in play we're confident that the medically essential nature of our products combined with the breadth of our portfolio will continue to position Baxter well over the long-term despite some near-term volatility.
During the quarter the company's emerging market sales rose mid-single digits on a constant currency basis largely aligned with the long-term guidance that we provided in May.
And finally I want to highlight some key developments in our new product pipeline.
Innovation has and will always remain a cornerstone of our success.
And we're committed to a future of ongoing advances in areas of clear medical need.
Looking out over the months and years ahead we'll launch a number of highly advanced new products make significant life-cycle improvements to existing offerings and expand penetration of our current products into new geographies.
Some of our recent achievements include FDA clearance for AMIA our new automated peritoneal dialysis system with SHARESOURCE our two-way web-based remote connectivity platform for home parents.
AMIA is the only system approved in the U.S.
that incorporates innovative patient centric features such as voice guidance a touch screen control panel and SHARESOURCE.
SHARESOURCE provides physicians with the ability to remotely access their home patient's historical treatment data and deliver individual treatment settings.
We're initiating the launch of AMIA with SHARESOURCE and anticipate having units in the market before year end.
Also the recently CE-marked HOMECHOICE CLARIA APD system is successfully launching in markets across Europe.
CLARIA builds on the strength of our market leading HOMECHOICE cycler now incorporating advanced technology and the benefits of the SHARESOURCE web-based remote connectivity among other patient- and other provider-centric enhancements.
Moving to our Hospital Products business we continue to successfully expand the launch of our next generation SIGMA SPECTRUM infusion pump across the U.S.
Canada and Puerto Rico.
Demand for the newly enhanced SPECTRUM technology remains strong and is trending better than our prelaunch expectations.
Also in the third quarter Hospital Products announced FDA approval of Cefazolin 2-gram injection in our proprietary GALAXY Container.
Cefazolin has been on the FDA's drug shortage list and in a variety of presentations due to high demand.
This is the first of nine molecules that Baxter is developing and expects to launch over the next several years.
And we recently submitted the second molecule for a review with the FDA and expect to launch this molecule in early 2016.
As these highlights demonstrate we're making meaningful advances across our overall margin improvement framework and this is only the start.
So with that let me now turn over to Jay for a closer look at the third quarter performance and also outlook for the remainder of the year.
And then prior to taking your questions I'd like to take a moment to make some closing comments.
So Jay please.
Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
As Bob mentioned adjusted earnings in the second quarter of $0.41 per diluted share exceeded our previously issued guidance range of $0.29 to $0.31 per share.
Performance in the quarter benefited from the disciplined management of discretionary expenses a favorable product mix which included better than expected cyclophosphamide sales and other income from foreign exchange related gains.
On a GAAP basis income from continuing operations of $2 million included net after tax special items totaling $223 million or $0.41 per diluted share primarily for costs associated with the company's spinoff of Baxalta business optimization initiatives debt extinguishment and intangible asset amortization.
Before I walk you through the P&amp;L I wanted to take a moment to make some comments regarding our historical financial statements which we detailed this morning in our 8-K filing.
First I want to start by acknowledging your patience with respect to these statements.
Given the highly integrated nature of the BioScience and Medical Products businesses pre-spin the preparation of the historical filings required significant time.
Second I wanted to highlight that these statements have inherent complexities associated with them when comparing current results with those of prior periods.
More specifically for the most part prior periods do not reflect income we received from Baxalta related to transition service agreements and deferred country closings.
In addition given the highly integrated nature of our businesses we were not able to clearly isolate select expense categories between Baxalta and Baxter in the discontinued operations presentation.
And lastly the historical P&amp;Ls included payroll expenses for certain positions initially determined as backfills for employees that transitioned to Baxalta.
Upon further evaluation post-spin some of these roles have since been eliminated and will not be replaced.
Investors should consider all of these factors when comparing Baxter's current results to historical periods.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to the financial outlook for the fourth quarter of 2015.
Starting with sales worldwide revenues of approximately $2.5 billion declined 8% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis sales increased 2% which compares favorably to our guidance for the quarter of comparable sales to the prior year.
Excluding the impact of both currency and increased competition for cyclophosphamide Baxter's sales grew 3% globally.
Sales in the U.S.
declined 1% on a reported basis and after adjusting for cyclophosphamide U.S.
sales advanced 3%.
International sales on a constant currency basis increased 3% and declined 12% on a reported basis.
In terms of individual business performance within Hospital Products global sales of approximately $1.5 billion declined 7% and on a constant currency basis sales rose 2%.
Adjusting for the impact of U.S.
cyclophosphamide and foreign exchange Hospital Products sales increased 4%.
Within the Fluid Systems franchise sales of $526 million declined 3% and on a constant currency basis sales advanced 5%.
Performance in the quarter was driven by double-digit growth in the infusion systems business supported by the successful launch of our next generation SIGMA SPECTRUM pump as well as a favorable customer mix for U.S.
IV solutions.
Sales in the Integrated Pharmacy Solutions or IPS franchise totaled $590 million and declined 8%.
On a constant currency basis sales grew 1%.
Excluding the cyclophosphamide impact sales in the category increased 9% driven by strength across the franchise which includes our nutritional products pharmacy injectables and hospital pharmacy compounding services.
IPS and performance in the quarter also benefited from a U.S.
government order for the pharmacy injectable PROTOPAM.
During the third quarter U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales totaled $80 million as compared to our previous expectation of approximately $50 million.
To date there remains one competitor in the U.S.
market but we continue to expect additional competition to enter although the timing of these entrants remains uncertain.
Revenues in Surgical Care which includes our anesthesia and biosurgery products were $322 million in the quarter and declined 5%.
On a constant currency basis sales grew 2% driven by strong performance globally in the anesthesia business and growth of core surgical sealants and hemostasis products including our market leading FLOSEAL Hemostatic Matrix.
This performance was offset by lower sales of select non-core biosurgery products including PERI-STRIPS where prior year's sales benefited from a competitor being out of the market who has since returned.
Finally sales in the biopharma solutions and other category which is our pharma partnering business totaled $106 million and as expected declined 19% on a reported basis or 12% on a constant currency basis.
As we have previously discussed this decline is driven by a large customer choosing to self-manufacture products that were previously contract manufactured by Baxter.
I'd also note that this category now reflects sales for products Baxter is manufacturing on behalf of Baxalta which totaled approximately $14 million in the quarter.
Turning to the Renal business.
global Renal sales totaled $943 million reflecting a decline of 11% on a reported basis.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency sales grew 1%.
Performance in the quarter was driven by mid-single digit growth in our peritoneal dialysis business and high-single digit growth in the acute business.
This growth was offset by lower sales in our chronic hemodialysis business resulting from our previously discussed decisions to forgo certain lower margin sales opportunities the implementation of select austerity measures in Western Europe and a particularly competitive environment for dialyzers.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L.
Gross margin in the quarter was 43.8% and compared favorably to our expectations driven primarily by positive product mix in the quarter.
SG&amp;A totaled $670 million and decreased 15% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis SG&amp;A declined 6% reflecting the benefit of the initial actions we have taken to re-base our cost structure and reduce discretionary expenses along with transition service income we received from Baxalta in the quarter.
Further actions to optimize our support structure needs are somewhat constrained in the short term by the transition service agreements we have in place with Baxalta.
These agreements extend over the next 18 to 24 months.
And as we pursue additional opportunities to streamline our ongoing functional support requirements we must be mindful of the services we're providing to Baxalta.
R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $140 million decreased 5% versus the prior year.
On a constant currency basis R&amp;D expenditures increased 2% as we have balanced increased investments to support our new product pipeline with efforts to optimize our overall R&amp;D spend.
Operating margin in the quarter was 11.2% which compared favorably to our guidance of 9% for the second half of 2015 driven by the positive gross margin and operating expense savings I just referenced.
As Bob mentioned this quarter we implemented a global workforce reduction program which will generate approximately $130 million in annual savings when fully implemented.
This program is a component of our comprehensive strategy to improve profitability and significantly expand operating margins by 2020.
As we move forward we'll continue to streamline our operations and control spending in support of this objective.
All of our cost structure initiatives remain on track.
And we are confident in our ability to achieve the 2020 operating margin target.
Interest expense was $34 million in the third quarter compared to $31 million last year.
During the quarter we successfully executed a tender for $2.7 billion of outstanding bonds.
The benefit of this reduced debt level was more than offset by lower levels of capitalized interest in the quarter.
At quarter end our current gross outstanding debt balance was approximately $6.7 billion and consisted of approximately $4.8 billion of bonds and other term debt approximately $1.5 billion of outstanding balances on our revolving bank line and approximately $400 million of commercial paper.
As previously communicated we'll look to further delever our balance sheet in the months ahead as part of our strategy to optimize the retained equity stake.
In addition to these activities we expect our retained stake utilization plans to include equity for equity exchanges as well as a contribution to our U.S.
qualified pension plan subject to regulatory approval.
Cash on hand at the end of the quarter totaled approximately $2 billion.
Other income totaled $39 million and included a planned gain related to the sale of select equity investments of approximately $20 million and an unplanned foreign exchange gain from hedges on balance sheet positions of approximately $20 million.
The tax rate was 20.8% for the quarter.
And as previously mentioned adjusted earnings of $0.41 per diluted share exceeded our guidance range of $0.29 to $0.31.
Let me conclude my comments this morning by providing an update on our full year sales guidance and outlook for the fourth quarter.
Starting with sales on a constant currency basis.
We now expect sales for the full year 2015 to increase approximately 1%.
And after adjusting both periods for the cyclophosphamide impact we continue to expect underlying growth of approximately 3%.
This is driven by growth in the Hospital Products business of approximately 1% or 4% excluding cyclophosphamide.
Specific to the franchises within Hospital Products we now expect sales growth of 4% to 5% for Fluid Systems reflecting the strong performance from infusion systems and U.S.
IV solutions.
For the Integrated Pharmacy Solutions franchise we now expect sales to decline low single digits.
As you know this category includes cyclophosphamide.
For the full year 2015 we now estimate U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales to total more than $250 million reflecting the $30 million third quarter benefit and an additional benefit of approximately $25 million in the fourth quarter relative to previous guidance.
Growth for the category after adjusting for cyclophosphamide is expected to increase mid-single digit.
With the Surgical Care franchise we anticipate sales to grow approximately 3%.
This growth is somewhat slower than our original expectations and reflects lower sales of non-core biosurgery products.
And finally for the Hospital Products business we now expect the other category which includes our biopharma solutions franchise to decline mid-single digits.
As I mentioned earlier this category now includes sales related to contract manufacturing agreements we have in place with Baxalta.
For the Renal business we now expect full-year sales to increase approximately 1% as we remain focused on maximizing the profitability of this business and maintaining a disciplined approach with respect to international tenders.
In addition as a reminder the Renal business is more exposed to the current volatility in emerging markets than other areas of our portfolio.
While over the long term we feel very confident that we're well positioned to capitalize on the growth opportunities within these geographies near-term performance will be impacted by softness in these markets.
Moving to the fourth quarter of 2015.
We expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency to decline approximately 1%.
And after adjusting for U.S.
cyclophosphamide to increase 1% to 2%.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to decline approximately 9%.
For the fourth quarter we expect an operating margin between 9.5% and 10% which again compares favorably to our previously issued second half guidance of 9%.
The sequential decline from the third quarter reflects incremental operational improvements and additional savings from our cost reduction initiatives being more than offset from the impact of lower sales of higher margin products like cyclophosphamide and PROTOPAM as well as the negative impact from foreign exchange.
We expect interest expense to total approximately $35 million and other to be an expense item of approximately $5 million in the quarter.
We continue to expect a tax rate of approximately 20% and an average share count of 550 million shares.
As stated in our press release we expect adjusted earnings excluding special items of $0.30 to $0.32 per diluted share.
Relative to our previous guidance earnings in the quarter reflect the benefit of incremental sales for cyclophosphamide offset by a negative impact from foreign exchange.
Before we open up the call for Q&amp;A I'd like to turn the call back over to Bob for some closing comments.
Bob? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Jay.
So before we do open up for Q&amp;A I'd like to spend just a minute addressing Baxter's path forward.
Certainly our biggest milestone in 2015 was the successful completion of the BioScience spinoff resulting in the establishment of two leading global healthcare companies.
The spinoff positioned both Baxter and Baxalta with improved focus and an ability to innovate and operate more effectively which will create enhanced value for all of our stakeholders.
I would tell you I couldn't be more pleased with the progress the Baxter organization has made following the spinoff and my confidence in our future has never been stronger.
Our third quarter results I think demonstrate the commitment of all of our employees around the world and the clear alignment that exists throughout the organization on achieving our strategic operational and financial objectives.
Given this momentum which has been established I'd like to touch on the search process for a new Baxter Chief Executive.
As I mentioned last quarter this is a front burner topic for the board.
I would tell you we're making very good progress in the search for my successor.
As I think you can understand due to the confidential nature of the search we can't comment now on timing or other specifics this morning.
Turning to capital allocation and in particular our use of the retained Baxalta equity stake where our primary objective remains maximizing the after-tax value of the stake.
Consistent with our previous statements we intend to use the stake in a highly tax efficient manner to optimize our capital structure which will provide additional flexibility to support organic growth initiatives and pursue external business development opportunities.
Regarding M&amp;A.
While we did not include any benefit in the financial projections that we provided in May going forward we expect M&amp;A to be a key component of our strategy to accelerate profitable growth.
Over the next 12 months as we enhance our balance sheet and progress on our post-spin margin improvement initiatives we will have significant flexibility to evaluate opportunities that are more transformative in both scope and scale but still align with our business model and leverage our broad channel strength and geographic presence.
In closing our aspiration remains to be a truly great company in service of our mission to save and sustain lives.
And I'm confident that we're on our way to achieving this goal.
So with that I think we can now open up the call to questions Clare.
Okay? Stephanie would you open? Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and additional replay will be available on the Baxter International website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
And our first question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
I wanted to ask one strategic question and one financial question.
And maybe Bob I'll pick up on where you ended the call with respect to M&amp;A.
I think at the time of the Analyst Meeting back in May the communication was that unlikely to see M&amp;A for at least 12-plus months.
And now it sounds like M&amp;A is becoming a more important part of the potential forward path.
And understandably it might not happen immediately.
But can you maybe just sort of talk us through the evolution of the thought process around M&amp;A? And give us some flavor for why M&amp;A has become a – potentially moved up the priority scheme? And then what type of deals you might be considering? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think a lot of this David is about timing.
At the May conference I commented on two constraints in the short term certainly within let's say the first 12 months.
One was some financial constraints certainly as we navigated our way through the retained stake and so on.
But the second one being organizational.
Completing the innovation of Gambro our ability to continue to support the Baxalta spinoff which requires a significant organizational commitment on Baxter's behalf going forward.
Relative to the organizational constraint frankly things have moved ahead even better than we had anticipated I think on all fronts.
So I think our organizational capacity to contemplate being more proactive perhaps maybe even a little sooner on M&amp;A is better today than what maybe we had anticipated in May.
And it's not going to be long before we've worked through this retained stake and so on.
And as I commented in my prepared comments we're going to have significant flexibility.
So we've advanced our thinking on things that we might want to do on the M&amp;A front.
I'm not going to be real specific in terms of size.
But possibly we could be thinking bigger than maybe what we've characterized in the past.
What we do know is we have such a strong presence in the acute care hospital channel wherever you go in the world.
The Baxter brand is well recognized.
It's respected.
And so the opportunity to do some things that fill out that channel more effectively we're very interested in.
So beyond that I'm not going to be any more specific than that.
But hopefully that gives you maybe a little bit more color as to how I think things evolved since we got together last May.
No that's definitely helpful.
Thank you for – and then just...
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
On the financial side obviously the second half of 2015 is coming in better than you had communicated some of which is tied to a slower run down in cyclophosphamide than might have been previously expected.
But how should we think about what we're seeing in the back half of 2015 as it relates to the initial targets you provided for 2016 back in May? How much of what we're seeing is sustainable versus more one time in nature? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jay you want to handle that? Sure.
Just making a comment in terms of third quarter performance.
We over-achieved the midpoint of our guidance by $0.11.
And there was really three primary drivers which contributed to that.
One was cyclophosphamide.
A second item related to some other income driven by foreign exchange and the timing of investment gains.
And then the third piece relates to savings related to the cancellation of (30:51) spending controls that we put in place as well.
So those really are the three primary drivers of the over-achievement in Q3.
As we move forward what I would say is the one that was most important to us was the operational performance related to the spending controls that we put in place.
And we're not updating 2016 guidance at this stage.
But what I will tell you is we're very confident in our ability to execute particularly on the cost side and also on the margin side as we move forward.
We'll update guidance in January.
But at this stage I think this first quarter was a very important building block for us to put in place that gives us a high level of confidence as we move forward through the rest of the plan.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks David.
Our next question comes from Matt Taylor with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking the question.
So you had good performance.
You outlined the three factors.
I guess could you expound a little bit on the third one that you talked about in terms of the savings cancellation? And I was just wondering if you could help us put that into context with your prior guidance.
How much of the upside was driven by that? And then how much does that change your margin expectations maybe relative to the LRP? What wasn't in the guidance before? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think the biggest factor was really the timing of the action.
So as we think about the performance in Q3 we had approximately $25 million maybe a little bit more than that of savings related to two areas: discretionary spending controls that we put in place and then also the cancellation of open roles.
And so as we had a high level of confidence that we were going to successfully execute the spin and we started to see the performance work out well very early in the July timeframe we were very proactive in terms of pulling forward some of the spending initiatives that we had earmarked for later in the year.
So some of the benefit that we saw in Q3 is not something that we would quote-unquote tack on to future periods but rather something that benefits Q3 specifically.
And because we were confident in our ability to execute we were able to put those pieces in place earlier than we previously expected.
So as far as the impact on the long-range plan I wouldn't say that this is quote-unquote incremental at this stage but rather it just gives us confidence that we're going to be able to execute as we move forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess another piece that you've talked a little bit about that wasn't in the plan numbers is an opportunity on price maybe in the PD business or in the IV solutions business.
Could you talk a little bit about the opportunities in each of those two businesses and I guess why you feel like pricing may be a lever that you can pull over the next 12 months? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Now I don't Matt I don't think there's anything new there from what we've messaged previously on that.
And so for a number of reasons including competitive reasons I don't think I'd want to expand on that any further this morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot for the comments.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Matt.
Our next question comes from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks.
Can you hear me okay? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure Bob go ahead.
Great.
So I wanted to follow up with a couple questions on the operating margins.
So I'll just rattle off a few things here.
So in the quarter how much of the roughly 200 basis points of operating margin beat was due to the $30 million in better cyclo sales? And in terms of the fourth quarter guidance which looks like it's down by about 150 basis points could you just break that out a little bit more? Because it seems like cyclo is only coming down by $5 million.
So just want to understand the kind of Q3 to Q4 dynamic there a little bit in a little bit more detail.
Sure.
Just one clarifying comment before I address the rest of the question.
Cyclo is actually down from Q3 to Q4 sequentially $30 million so in Q3 we achieved roughly $80 million.
We expect to achieve roughly $50 million in Q4.
Got it.
As it relates to the operating margin of 11% in the quarter there were really two drivers of that.
One relates to the cyclo over-performance and that was about 1 point.
And the second relates to the timing of the spending savings that we were able to initiate.
And that was another roughly 1 point of margin.
So if you adjust for those two items those were the two drivers of the over-performance.
Now turning sequentially from Q3 to Q4.
We're guiding to 9.5% to 10%.
And so relative to the 11.2% that we experienced in Q3 there are a number of drivers.
First we have about 1 point of cyclo deterioration from Q3 to Q4.
Second we have about 1 point of foreign exchange deterioration from Q3 to Q4.
The other comment is in Q3 we had a large order of PROTOPAM.
And while that's not necessarily a one-timer it is a periodic order that we receive and we don't forecast one for Q4.
And that's roughly 0.7 points of margin that we're going to lose from Q3 to Q4 that we expected and planned for.
But as we think about our performance moving forward there are two drivers that we're going to continue to experience benefits from general operational improvements of about 80 basis points and operational OpEx savings will also continue to accelerate as well.
So as we think about it that's what drives the 11.2% to roughly 9.5% to 10%.
Great Jay.
That's very clear.
Thank you.
And then one big picture question regarding the request last night from a couple senators for the FTC to investigate saline business broadly among the big three competitors there.
I'm sure there's probably not much you can say about that.
But I just wanted to make sure I had a good understanding.
In the current LRP this business is a decent chunk of the overall whole.
What kind of – I mean I assume you've been assuming pretty decent price increases in that business in your LRP.
Could you just confirm what kind of price increases you've got assumed in the LRP for saline going forward? Yeah.
Overall in the long-range plan we had fairly modest price increases across the portfolio.
In some product categories we had low increases.
In other product categories we actually had price declines.
Bob you want to add anything? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So thanks for asking the question Bob.
And again I'm somewhat limited in terms of what we can say.
But maybe some thoughts I would share.
I think everybody appreciates the fact that IV solutions are probably one of the best medical values in healthcare today.
We've used the analogy of the cost of an IV as less than a cup of coffee or a bottle of water that you'd buy at 7-Eleven.
Right? I will tell you all we've made extraordinary efforts to maximize the availability of product to address the shortage including significant investments to identify and secure additional sources of supply.
By the way this includes working with the FDA to get one of our foreign plants in Spain approved to import product from Spain to help mitigate the shortage situation.
We continue to work with them on other international sourcing locations as well.
The average price for IVs has increased at a fairly modest level over the past.
Okay? And Jay commented on our views going forward.
So I would just conclude by saying look we're confident in our practices.
I would characterize them as reasonable appropriate.
But again just to reiterate we're taking every step we possibly can to make product available to address the shortage.
So beyond that I won't expand any further Bob.
But thanks for asking the question.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Our next question comes from David Lewis with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi David.
Bob just to start with you really quickly here.
Emerging market commentary kind of across the coverage universe this quarter has varied amongst companies.
I think you commented that your EM business was generally in line with what you talked about back in May.
Can you sort of talk about how you saw the business in May? What you're seeing here in the third and early fourth quarter? And how you describe your EM business here from a growth perspective? Is it stable? Is it slowing? Is it accelerating? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So thanks for asking the question David.
Yeah I characterized it as generally in line.
Frankly it's a tad softer than what we had messaged in May although it's hanging in there pretty well and probably stronger than a lot of other companies.
And I think that speaks to as I mentioned in my prepared comments the "essential nature" of our products and so on.
But look the reality is – and we all know what's going on – emerging markets are a real challenge right now.
And I'm not going to project a significant turnaround in the near term.
But I do think the guidance that we provided over our LRP in terms of revenue growth will be achieved over the 5-year period of time.
I would tell you the one business that has been particularly hit by that has been kind of the traditional in-center hemodialysis business which we saw a disproportionate impact of the softening of the emerging markets.
But just so you don't misinterpret my comments emerging markets – continued investments in emerging markets given the nature of our products will continue to be an important aspect of our growth prospects over the LRP.
Okay.
And maybe just maybe two quick ones.
Bob just one more strategic view.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
You mentioned the word transformative in your M&amp;A commentary.
Is transformative M&amp;A possible during the CEO transition? And then second one just for Jay.
In Fluids Systems there's a lot of strength there.
Jay was that systems or disposables mix? What was the bigger driver? And specifically can you flush out what was it about the disposable mix that drove the acceleration? Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So I would say in the first part transformative is a relative term.
But obviously we're open-minded to things that are material.
I will tell you that I've had dialogue with our Board on some things that we might want to consider doing relative to the timing of this as it relates to succession.
I guess we need to define the succession timing first and then go from there.
But the succession has not gotten in the way of us having strategic dialogue with our Board in this regard.
And I'm confident that based on the timing of the succession that that dialogue will continue David.
Okay? Jay you want to do the second one? Yeah sure.
And as it relates to the infusion system strength really the key driver of that was the sale of the SIGMA SPECTRUM Pump in the U.S.
We did see mid to high single-digit sales growth of access.
But from an overall driver standpoint we're pleased with the progress that we're making on the infusion pump launch.
That's going very well.
And that was the key driver in the quarter that led to the double-digit growth.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I just want to go back to maybe the first couple questions on the call.
So just to flesh out the quarter.
So Jay if you broke it down the different upside drivers in the quarter between cyclo delay the gains FX and other that were in the other income line PROTOPAM shipment this quarter and then maybe the continuing ops how would you break that down? Sure.
The PROTOPAM piece was actually included in our original guidance.
So that was not an upside to the guidance.
But that was about $0.025 roughly of EPS that we had expected.
The important thing about PROTOPAM is like I said in my comments earlier it is not a one-time order.
These are periodic orders that we receive.
We just don't receive them every quarter.
So it was an expected driver of performance in the quarter.
Relative to our $0.30 midpoint as you said there were three upsides.
One relates to cyclophosphamide.
We had about roughly $30 million of unplanned upside in that category.
One relates to other income.
We had forecasted certain other income for the second half of the year but we did over-achieve that largely driven by balance sheet positions that we had in place in overseas entities driving foreign exchange gains.
And that was about $0.03 of over-achievement.
And then finally the OpEx savings that I described earlier was about $25 million between $0.03 and $0.04 of impact in the quarter.
And as I said that was a very important component for us to put in place early on this margin improvement journey.
Okay.
So the – you would characterize it as $0.03 to $0.04 is what you would view as being ongoing? Yes.
Exactly.
Those – that would be more ongoing.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then just to make sure we're thinking about the Baxalta stake correctly.
Jay is your priority still besides the pension the revolver that comes due in December? Yeah maybe just taking a step back.
Thanks for the question Mike.
I'll make some further comments on the retained stake so everyone is on the same page.
The strategy with the retained stake remains the same.
Our objective is to maximize the after tax value.
We have a private letter ruling from the IRS which supports essentially three mechanisms for us to utilize that stake over the next 18 months in order for us to achieve that tax free status that I described.
One is an equity for equity exchange.
One is an equity for debt exchange.
And one is a contribution to our pension plan.
As it relates to progress that we're making in the quarter we are continuing our discussions on the pension with Department of Labor.
And we're very confident that we'll receive the appropriate approvals that will allow us to make a pension contribution.
And we were pleased with the progress in the quarter.
As it relates to equity for debt you're right.
We did file – Baxalta on our behalf filed an S-1 in the quarter which we have earmarked for a piece of debt that expires in December.
The reason I like that debt is because it's a very low-cost way for us to use the retained stake in the sense that there are no premium or breakage fees associated with retiring that piece of debt.
So it really does help achieve our objective.
To the extent that the market conditions are right and we feel like we have a transaction window that's appropriate for us to take advantage of we do expect to target that piece of debt with a portion of the Baxalta equity stake.
More broadly we will think about equity for debt and looking at the overall bond complex in the form of a secondary offering with a modified debt tender later on.
So overall that all continues as we expect moving forward.
And we do – we'll evaluate conditions as we move forward to see if there is an opportunity for us to target that piece of debt prior to December.
That's very helpful.
Thanks Jay.
Thanks Bob.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Mike.
Our next question comes from Matt Miksic with UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Thanks for taking the question.
So one follow-up for Bob on your questions about M&amp;A and strategic investment.
Not to beat a dead horse but I did just want to touch on one aspect of your meeting in May.
It was talking about accelerating profitable growth.
And so if we think of assets or transformative or mid-sized acquisitions or – and so on should we be thinking about something that is a synergy play on your platform and with cost synergies involved? Or should we be thinking of something that is in fact going to help sort of drive growth your – as well? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Matt I'm not sure I can expand a lot beyond what I said in answer to one of the earlier questions on this but maybe to reiterate a point.
The priority would be things that as I said before flesh out our acute care hospital channel.
So that's another way of saying commercial synergy where one plus one is greater than two.
Clearly structural cost would be part of it as well.
And targets that we would look at would be meaningfully accretive.
But it would be both a commercial synergy play leveraged in the acute care channel and depending upon on what the target may be a structural cost as well.
And one if I could follow-up on a question earlier on pumps.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
If you could talk a little bit about the success that you've had there? That process is of course winning contracts placing channels and enjoying and driving the pull through of utilization.
Could you talk a little bit about maybe where you are this year? If there is a point where you've sort of either hit changing comps or change in mix? Or just some color on the process of that roll-out? And then I have one more follow-up for Jay.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So the momentum on the SIGMA launch as I commented is building.
We're very pleased with the market response to date.
Just to ground everyone you'll recall in our Investor Conference and the LRP projections we assumed that we would regain approximately 5 of 10 share points in the U.S.
launch lost over the last number of years because of the colleague challenges and so on.
All I would say Matt on that is given the early impact of the relaunch we are highly confident that we will be able to regain at least those 5 share points in the LRP.
And I think our longer term aspiration of recovering all of that share loss if not more is certainly very very viable.
Admittedly there's a little bit of pent-up demand.
And so we want continue to gauge that and monitor the sustainability of that.
But again all I can just really say qualitatively or subjectively is we're very very pleased with the market response to SPECTRUM.
The product is performing very well.
And really beyond that I'm not going to expand.
Hopefully that helps.
Sure.
Well congrats on the progress so far.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
And then Jay a comment.
You mentioned a couple times the gains FX gains as being one of the positives.
I was wondering if you could highlight – those sounded like balance sheet or asset-related gains below the operating line.
Could you talk a little bit about the impact of the sort of FX gains that dropped through the P&amp;L in terms of the offset either natural hedges or otherwise? If you have a net feel for what the impact of FX was to the P&amp;L? Sure.
So to your point the gains that I was pointing to are really other income related gains related to balance sheet positions held in overseas entities that are mark-to-market as part of our standard process on a monthly and quarterly basis.
As it relates to overall impact of FX I did mention that sequentially from Q3 to Q4 excluding the area of sundry we are seeing some deterioration in foreign exchange.
So sequentially from Q3 to Q4 we have about $0.04 of impact that we expect to see.
And that's about $0.01 to $0.02 worse than our expectations driven by its deterioration in a number of currencies.
We've seen a lot of volatility in emerging markets in particular.
From a hedging standpoint overall for the developed market currencies we do have an approach where we look to hedge a portion of our exposure with the use of options.
And then for those currencies that we don't there are a lot of emerging market currencies today that we don't actually hedge in because it's not economic to do so.
In the case of those markets there are some natural hedges that we have in place.
As you know we have manufacturing facilities in 40 countries around the world or 40 manufacturing facilities in 25 countries around the world.
And so as a result of that we do have some natural expense offsets to the sales that we have in place.
And that we don't have that many products that are truly global in nature creating additional foreign exchange exposure.
So we will continue to be exposed to foreign exchange.
It's an area we watch very closely.
We do see this $0.01 to $0.02 impact.
But there are active hedging programs that we have in place.
And there are some balance sheet programs we have in place.
And then there are also the natural hedges that I just mentioned.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Matt.
Our next question comes from Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Larry.
Inc.</span></strong> Bob I was wondering if you might take a stab at just giving us some thoughts around the environment in the U.S.
and Europe.
I know you already talked through emerging markets but how about in some of the other geographies? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean ironically probably the U.S.
market is as stable or strong as any geography in the world right now.
You saw that with our performance in the first half of the year in the U.S.
where we're seeing some recovery.
We're seeing some expanded expenditure on capital goods which helps our pump business.
And we would project that that's going to continue.
Europe clearly continues developed Europe continues to be a challenge.
We don't see any significant improvement there.
I don't see any significant deterioration as well going forward.
And then emerging markets I think both Jay and I have commented on this morning.
It's really kind of an unknown in the near term.
Although clearly long term all of these countries are increasing the amount of spend to healthcare.
And that particularly plays to our strength in terms of the essential nature of our product.
So beyond that I realize that's all very qualitative.
I don't know if there's anything Larry specifically within that you'd like me to comment on.
Inc.</span></strong> No.
That's helpful.
I just had two other questions for you.
You did mention in the prepared comments about some competition in dialyzers.
Again I recognize that's not necessarily new.
But if you could sort of speak to that and weave in there sort of where we are on the dialyzer capacity expansion? And then the other quick question for you was if I sort of just do the very high level math on the operating margin for the second half it implies somewhere around 10.5% or so.
You guys had been sort of focused on 11% for 2016.
So how should we think about that 100 basis point improvement in 2016 from the initially targeted 9% in the second half of this year? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Let me comment on the dialyzer competition maybe a little bit more broadly on the Renal performance.
And then Jay if you would pick up on the second part of the question.
So first of all just kind of stepping back we continue to believe the ESRD patient growth globally is growing around 5%.
Our performance to date is impacted really by a number of factors.
First of all as I commented in the prepared comments we've decided to forgo some lower margin tenders which has impacted us in the short term.
We continue to manage through conversion of distributors that Gambro had to going direct which is the right thing to do strategically and long term but in the short term can be somewhat disruptive.
And then of course I think a more competitive environment in the in-center chronic business than what we had anticipated.
Although in fairness I would say in our modeling we've always assumed some modest price erosion over the long-range plan for dialyzers.
In terms of expanded capacity that won't come on until late 2016 in our investment in Opelika Alabama.
We also as I think you know are expanding capacity in the production of PD solutions in China and Southeast Asia and so on.
So the combination of the capacity expansion as well as an array of new product launches.
AMIA I talked about the approval in the U.S.
which is very exciting.
I mean that really builds on the HOMECHOICE which is a $1.5 billion system globally today so that's big.
PrisMAX the CLARIA launch in Europe and then of course VIVIA for home HD.
So whether it's capacity expansion or new product flow that's what's going to accelerate the Renal growth going forward.
I'm confident that as we move into 2016 we're going to ramp up the year-to-year growth in the Renal business.
But the reality is that the chronic in-center business particularly in dialyzers continues to be very competitive.
We anticipated that that perhaps to a greater degree than we had anticipated but we're looking forward to the capacity expansion.
So that's about as much color as I can provide there.
Jay you want to handle the other? Sure.
On the operating margin we did guide to 9% for the second half and we're pleased that the second half is running better than that.
As it relates to 2016 we actually guided to a 10% margin for 2016 and 11% in 2017 essentially 100 basis points of margin improvement per year.
It's important to note that in 2016 we also expected about 100 basis points of deterioration due to cyclo.
So in fact the organic or the true growth in margin in 2016 was really 200 basis points.
But like I said our guidance for 2016 was 10%.
Based on our performance in the second half thus far we're pleased.
And we have confidence in our ability to achieve the projections that we've shared.
At this stage we're not making any changes to guidance moving forward.
There's a lot of moving pieces things like foreign exchange pension operational improvements et cetera.
And we're actually going through a budgeting process as we speak to firm up our 2016 expectations.
You can expect to hear an update from us on our January earnings call.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Larry.
In the interest of time we'll take two more questions.
Our next question comes from Rick Wise with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi Bob.
Just I wanted to follow up on the question on operating margins if I could.
And maybe push you a little further.
I mean just when companies I've noticed over the years start down this path of focusing more intently on cost reduction and efficiency sometimes they can even surprise themselves.
Maybe a couple things.
The – for example the global work force reduction how quickly will that $130 million savings hit the P&amp;L? And maybe Jay talk to us about the possibility of other discretionary spending cuts? I mean just remind us what some of the opportunities are.
Is it in supply chain? Is it back office? Is it IT? Just help us understand the larger directional picture if you would.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So let me maybe comment Rick – this is Bob – on kind of to set this up a little bit with some statistics.
And then Jay can pick up the second part of your question.
First of all in terms of timing the actions that we discussed this morning are going to largely be completed by the end of this year.
So this is pretty immediate.
As you gathered from our prepared comments this is the first part of what will be other actions that we will take over time.
One thing we have to continue to be sensitive to as Jay commented earlier is the organizational support requirements for the Baxalta spinoff and so on.
So we want to be cognizant of that as well.
But we do think there are meaningful actions going forward.
And of course what we didn't comment on was the completion of the Gambro integration which continues on track as well.
So in aggregate fairly meaningful undertakings the impact of which will be near term the – maybe to give you some specifics on the reduction which we characterize as about 5% of non-manufacturing jobs.
This translates into about 1 400 jobs globally about 70%.
Our existing head count about a third of which are cancellation of open positions roughly two-thirds of the reductions are outside the United States.
And really spread around the world fairly evenly.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Jay you want to pick up on the second part of the question? Yeah.
And just to elaborate a little bit further.
I mean overall we commented at our Investor Conference outlining 430 basis points of very specific cost improvements 90 of which comes from Gambro 80 of which comes from manufacturing 50 of which comes from the pension and 210 basis points related to G&amp;A.
And so by no means were we surprised by the size scope or scale of the restructuring that we announced.
And so far everything is moving forward very much in line with our expectations from a cost standpoint.
One of the areas to your point that we're very focused on relates to discretionary spending.
And we believe there is some opportunity to look hard at certain categories.
We're using some zero-based techniques and looking at very detailed spend levels in areas like travel consulting and some other discretionary spending like marketing and professional services.
And so as we go through our budget that's a clear area of focus for us.
We think we have the opportunity pegged appropriately in terms of the impact on our long-range plan financials.
But I can assure you with respect to all of these actions and the overall plan the three components of the plan that Bob described earlier we are looking to do better than we've outlined.
And we're attempting to do that at each step.
And so cost is squarely in that focus.
But I wouldn't say we've been surprised by our performance at this stage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I'll leave it at that.
Thanks for the color.
Appreciate it.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Rick.
Our last – our final question comes from Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Oh thank you very much for including me and very nice quarter.
In Renal did I understand that you're largely done with the Gambro integration? Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We still have work to do.
I think we're approaching the conclusion of it.
Jay you want to comment? Yeah sure.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Specifically on the dollars.
Well by the end of this year we expect to have achieved approximately $200 million in savings.
And then in 2016 and 2017 we expect $100 million in incremental savings.
Really the drivers of the remaining piece relates to certain manufacturing a consolidation of activity certain warehousing and distribution consolidations.
And then finally there are some IT savings.
As we roll out Baxter platforms across the Gambro network there will be some G&amp;A savings.
And we still have a few IT implementations to go.
Those are the primary drivers of the remaining $100 million in savings.
That's very helpful.
As a follow up as we think about 2016 can you remind us where FX may or may not impact different items on the income statement other than obviously revenue? But how is it going to roll through so that we don't get to 2016 guidance and suddenly have either other income or margins significantly different than expectations? Yeah.
As we look at FX in 2016 what we had assumed in May was essentially a constant FX environment in the sense that we assumed flat currencies over the long-range plan period.
To the extent that there are departures from that we'll first look to hedge using various techniques that we've discussed.
There will be the benefit of natural hedges in place.
But as we saw in Q4 based on the change in foreign exchange from Q3 – from June to today let's just put it that way we did see a negative impact of around $0.01 to $0.02 in the fourth quarter.
So this will be one of the important assumptions that we update as part of our January guidance along with many other items that we look forward to discussing with investors.
Terrific.
Thank you so much.
Jr.
- Chairman &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Joanne.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you for participating.
You may all disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Baxter International's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines will remain in a listen-only mode until the question and answer segment of today's call.
[Operation Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded by Baxter and is copyrighted material.
It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Baxter's permission.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Clare Trachtman Vice President Investor Relations at Baxter International.
Ms.
Trachtman you may begin.
Thanks Stephanie.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me today are Joe Almeida Baxter's new Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Jay Saccaro Chief Financial Officer.
On the call this morning we will be discussing Baxter's fourth quarter financial results and outlook for the remainder of 2016 before taking your questions.
With that let me start our prepared remarks by reminding everyone that this presentation including comments regarding our financial outlook new product development and regulatory matters contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and of course our actual results could differ materially from our current expectations.
Please refer to today's press release in our SEC filings for more detail concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.
In addition on today's call non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Baxter's ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures being discussed today to the comparable GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release issued this morning and available on our website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Joe.
Joe? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Clare.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
Before commenting on our performance in the fourth quarter I wanted to share a few initial impressions of what I have observed during the past several weeks and why I'm excited about the opportunities that lay ahead.
Clearly we're building on a very strong foundation.
Baxter has established one of the most trusted and respected brands in the healthcare industry and over this rich history we have built a durable portfolio of market leading projects with broad geography reach that spans more than 100 countries.
Clearly we have an outstanding base for expanding margins and accelerating performance.
And following last year's spin-off of Baxalta we can now devote our attention to the strategies and investments that will drive profitable growth across the business and create value as we aspire to deliver top quartile 5total shareholder returns for our investors.
The initial steps are already well underway which is reflecting Baxter's fourth quarter results.
As you saw in this morning's release we delivered adjusted earnings of $0.43 per diluted share exceeding our guidance of $0.30 to $0.32 per diluted share.
Operating income of 10.7% compared favorably of our guidance of 9.5% to 10%.
After adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange and a generic market entrant in the U.S.
for cyclophosphamide we reported sales growth of 4% in the quarter also ahead of our expectations.
Key growth drivers in the quarter included strong performance in our US fluid systems franchise where our newly launched SIGMA SPECTRUM infusion pump continues to build momentum as well as increase the demand and favorable pricing for our IV solutions.
Performance was also augmented by strength in our U.S.
peritoneal dialysis business which report the highest quarterly growth of the year.
The U.S.
PD business is seeing very promising early results on the recent launch of our AMIA APD cycler which features our SHARESOURCE two-way connectivity platform and we look forward to expanding this launch in 2016.
So overall a positive quarter and a great base to build on for the future.
As for what the future looks like we are in process of developing a strategic framework that will shape our priorities and direct our approach and investments moving forward.
I'm confident this framework will drive a sustainable growth for Baxter and create enhanced value for our shareholders.
Simply put our objective is to further accelerate and increase the impact of our margin improvement plans to support our goal of top quartile shareholder return.
To successfully achieve this outcome we will execute on three distinct strategic factors including portfolio optimization operational excellence and capital allocation.
In terms of portfolio optimization we have taken this passionate approach to portfolio management which we include – categorize our businesses based on the existing financial profile and future potential.
And accordingly we will reallocate investments based on the ability to drive innovation.
In addition we're intensifying our focus on both R&amp;D velocity and productivity to support our top and bottom line growth initiatives.
The second area of strategic focus is operational excellence.
We are aggressively examining our cost structure in terms of how we do business from manufacturing and operations to commercial and corporate infrastructure.
I'm confident we can take additional cost out of our business without compromise our commitment to quality and safety.
Related to this we also ensure our capital expenditures are optimally allocated to projects that enhance bottom line growth and support long-term value creation.
And the final strategic focus area for us is capital allocation where we are committed to deploying capital in a manner that creates value over both the short and long-term.
We'll be sharing more information about our strategy at our upcoming Investor Day on May 9 in New York City.
At that meeting we will provide more specifics around our objectives along with our three and five-year aspirational financial targets.
We know there's a lot of hard work in front of us but our team is energized and well prepared for the road ahead.
And with that I will pass it to Jay for more details on our fourth quarter performance and outlook for 2016.
Then we'll have time at the end for questions.
Jay? Thanks Joe and good morning everyone.
As Joe mentioned adjusted earnings in the quarter of $0.43 per diluted share exceeded our previously issued guidance of $0.30 to $0.32 per diluted share.
Sales growth in the quarter benefited from strong operational performance in our fluid systems PD and acute businesses as well as operating expense savings resulting from our disciplined management of costs and the restructuring initiative we announced last quarter.
In addition other income from foreign exchange related gains and a favorable tax rate both contributed to our performance in the quarter.
Now let me briefly walk you through the P&amp;L by line item before turning to the financial outlook for 2016.
Starting with sales worldwide revenues of $2.6 billion increased 2% on a constant currency basis.
This performance compared favorably to our Q4 guidance of a 1% sales decline with better than expected sales growth observed across the portfolio particularly in our fluid systems integrated pharmacy solutions and renal franchises.
Including the impact of foreign exchange sales declined 7% on a reported basis and excluding the impact of both foreign exchange and U.S.
cyclophosphamide Baxter's sales rose 4% globally.
Sales in the U.S.
increased 1% on a reported basis and after adjusting for cyclophosphamide U.S.
sales advanced 7%.
International sales on a constant currency basis increased 2% and declined 12% on a reported basis.
Turning now to the drivers of business performance in the quarter please note I will be speaking to sales growth on a constant currency basis excluding any foreign exchange impact for each of the businesses and franchises to provide a clearer picture of Baxter's underlying operational performance.
Starting with hospital products global sales totaled $1.6 billion and increased 2% and after adjusting for U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales for the hospital products business increased 5%.
Within the fluid systems franchise sales of $569 million advanced 12%.
Performance in the quarter was driven by growth of more than 20% in the infusion systems business supported by the successful launch of our next generation SIGMA SPECTRUM Pump and the related access sets pull-through.
In addition sales of IV solutions in the quarter benefited from favorable pricing and demand particularly in the United States.
Sales in the integrated pharmacy solutions franchise totaled $595 million and were comparable to the prior year period.
Excluding U.S.
cyclo sales revenues in the category increased 8% driven by strength across the franchise which includes our nutritional products pharmacy injectables and hospital pharmacy compounding services.
Fourth quarter U.S.
cyclo sales totaled $65 million representing a benefit of approximately $10 million versus our previous guidance.
For the full year U.S.
cyclo sales totaled approximately $270 million.
Fourth quarter revenues in surgical care which includes our anesthesia and biosurgery products totaled $346 million and were comparable to the prior-year period.
Performance benefited from low single digit growth of our anesthesia business and core surgical sealants and hemostasis products which both increased in line with surgical procedure volume growth.
This performance was offset by lower sales of select non-core biosurgery products.
Finally sales in the biopharma solutions and other category which is our former partnering business totaled $109 million and as expected declined 22%.
As we previously highlighted this decline is driven by a large customer electing to self-manufacture products that were previously contract manufactured by Baxter.
As we mentioned last quarter this category also reflects sales for products Baxter is manufacturing on behalf of Baxalta which totaled approximately $13 million in the quarter.
Turning to the renal business global renal sales totaled $984 million representing an increase of 1%.
Performance in the quarter was driven by high single digit growth in our U.S.
peritoneal dialysis business.
As Joe mentioned we're very excited about the prospects for this business which will benefit from the recent launch of our new AMIA PD cycler.
In addition we experienced low teens growth globally in our acute business driven by underlying market growth and an increased adoption of continuous renal replacement therapy as a treatment option for acute kidney injuries.
Growth in the renal business was offset by lower sales in our in-center chronic hemodialysis business resulting from our previously discussed decision to forego certain lower margin sales opportunities along with competitive pressures for dialyzers.
Turning to the rest of the P&amp;L adjusted gross margin for the quarter was 42.6% slightly ahead of our expectations driven by favorable products mix in the quarter.
Adjusted SG&amp;A totaled $672 million and decreased 17% on a reported basis.
On a constant currency basis adjusted SG&amp;A declined 11% reflecting the benefit of the initial actions we have taken to rebase our cost structure and reduce discretionary expenses and the impact from transition service income we received from Baxalta during the quarter which totaled approximately $30 million.
Adjusted R&amp;D spending in the quarter of $158 million increased 2% versus the prior year.
On a constant currency basis adjusted R&amp;D expenditures increased 9% as we balance increased investments to support our new product pipeline with efforts to optimize our overall R&amp;D spend.
Consistent with our portfolio optimization priorities during the quarter we made the decision to discontinue the development of select programs and as a result absorbed approximately $15 million in expenses related to these decisions.
Adjusted operating margin in the quarter was 10.7% which compared favorably to our guidance of 9.5% to 10% driven by the positive gross margin mix and SG&amp;A savings I just referenced.
And as Joe mentioned earlier we'll continue to streamline our operations and control spending to drive ongoing margin expansion.
Interest expense was $32 million in the fourth quarter.
Last week we executed our first transaction with respect to the retained Baxalta stake.
In this transaction we exchanged approximately 38 million Baxalta shares or approximately 28% of the total original equity stake to retire $1.45 billion of indebtedness under one of our bank lines.
Over the next several months we'll look to further deploy the remaining Baxalta equity through a combination of additional debt for equity and equity for equity exchanges as well as make a contribution of at least $600 million worth of equity to our U.S.
qualified pension plan subject to final regulatory approval.
Our goal is to exit our retained equity position prior to any shareholder vote for the Baxalta Shire transaction to minimize the risk of any potential negative tax implications and we have an agreement in place with Shire and Baxalta to assist with the orderly disposition of the stake.
For 2016 we expect these retained stake-related actions to benefit our earnings by approximately $0.15 per diluted share.
In terms of key balance sheet items after giving effect to the extinguishment of the bank line our current gross outstanding debt balance is approximately $5 billion and cash on hand at the end of 2015 totaled approximately $2.2 billion.
Other income totaled $36 million and included a foreign exchange gain from hedges on balance sheet positions of approximately $20 million and dividend income of approximately $10 million associated with our Baxalta equity stake.
The adjusted tax rate was 16.6% for the quarter.
This compared favorably to our guidance and contributed approximately $0.02 to our earnings per share in the quarter.
The lower tax rate was driven by the extension of the R&amp;D tax credit a slight shift in our sales mix and certain other adjustments.
And as previously mentioned adjusted earnings of $0.43 per diluted share exceeded our guidance of $0.30 to $0.32 per share.
Let me conclude my comments this morning by providing an update on our outlook for 2016.
Starting with sales on a constant currency basis we expect 2016 full year sales for Baxter to increase 2% to 3% and after adjusting for the U.S.
cyclo impact we expect underlying growth of 3% to 4%.
On a reported basis including the impact of foreign exchange we expect sales to decline approximately 1%.
This is driven by growth in the hospital products business up 2% to 3% or 4% to 5% excluding U.S.
cyclo.
Within the hospital products franchises we expect sales growth of 6% to 8% for fluid systems driven by strength in the U.S.
business partially offset by the international business where we continue our efforts to optimize our geographic footprint for this franchise.
For the integrated pharmacy solutions franchise we expect sales to decline mid-single digits including the impact of U.S.
cyclo.
For full year 2016 we anticipate at least two additional competitive entrants specifically one to enter mid-year and the second to enter towards the latter part of 2016.
As a result we expect U.S.
cyclophosphamide sales to total approximately $180 million representing a $90 million year-over-year decline.
Sales for the category after adjusting for cyclophosphamide are expected to be comparable to prior years.
I would also remind you that in the 2015 we recognized approximately $40 million in government sales for PROTOPAM.
Given the purchasing pattern associated with this product we do not anticipate any sales in 2016 in IPS.
Within the surgical care franchise we anticipate sales to grow 2% to 3%.
And finally for the hospital products business we expect the other category which includes our biopharma solutions franchise to increase low-double digits as we anniversary the impact of our customer transitioning their manufacturing in-house.
This also reflects an incremental year-over-year benefit of approximately $25 million associated with contract manufacturing revenues from Baxalta.
For the renal business we expect full year sales to increase approximately 3% driven by continued growth in our PD and acute businesses and a stabilization in our in-center HD business.
Moving down the P&amp;L we expect an operating margin of approximately 11% which compares favorably to the guidance we provided at our 2015 May Investor Conference of approximately 10%.
We expect interest expense to total approximately $90 million.
This reflects the recent extinguishment of our bank line along with additional debt repayment based on further utilization of the retained stake.
For 2016 we expect modest other income of approximately $10 million.
This represents a year-over-year decline of approximately $150 million.
In 2015 we benefited from certain balance sheet hedge gains and select equity gains related to our Baxter Ventures portfolio neither of which is planned to repeat in 2016.
For the year we expect an average adjusted tax rate of 19.5% to 20%.
This represents an increase from 2015 driven primarily by the change in earnings mix.
For 2016 we anticipate an average share count of approximately 540 million shares.
This reduction is driven by equity-for-equity exchanges that we anticipate to execute as part of our retained stake strategy later in second quarter.
Please note that our interest expense and share count guidance reflects a preliminary base case retained stake execution plan and is subject to change as we reassess the optimal size and mix of our remaining transactions as market and other conditions evolve.
We anticipate providing updates to our guidance and/or additional detail around the actual impacts of our retained stake transactions as appropriate as we move forward.
Based on these factors we expect adjusted earnings excluding special items of $1.46 to $1.54 per diluted share for 2016.
Finally for the year we expect operating cash flow of approximately $1.4 billion and CapEx of approximately $900 million resulting in free cash flow for 2016 of approximately $500 million.
This is also favorable to the guidance we provided in May.
Specific to the first quarter of 2016 we expect sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency to increase 3% to 4%.
At current foreign exchange rates we expect reported sales to decline approximately 2% and we expect adjusted earnings excluding special items of $0.28 to $0.30 per diluted share.
With that we can now open up the call for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
I would like to remind participants that this call is being recorded and a digital replay will be available on the Baxter International's website for 30 days at www.baxter.com.
Our first question comes from David Roman with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Hi Joe.
Good to hear your voice again here.
I want to just start with one strategic question and then one follow up on the financial side.
And Joe I imagine you'll get into this in more detail come May but maybe you could just start from a top-down perspective in where are you ultimately hoping to take Baxter.
As I sort of think about the profile of the business today relatively low-single digit top line growth room for margin expansion how do you want the business to be perceived and where do you ultimately want to take the story over time? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> David I don't want to preempt our meeting in May but I will give you a few things that we're considering very seriously.
First of all is taking from the top we need to alter the weighted average market growth rate of our businesses.
By doing that we will look at some organic programs that can help us get into some adjacent markets and also some acquisitions.
When also we look at execution we need to continue to improve our execution on a global basis and make sure that we are in the right businesses around the globe.
Being global is not to be all over the place so we need to make sure that we're focusing in countries and geographies for businesses that make sense.
So all this work is in process as we speak.
When I look at on the cost base and expense we want to take the company to a rebase exercise cost rebase and find out what is the appropriate level of support that we need to maintain our company and provide for continuous improvement and operational excellence programs that will deliver better results than we have spoken about in terms of operating income back in May last year.
So we are working very diligently right now in creating this strategic framework.
We're working on our portfolio initiatives.
But we understand some of these initiatives on the top line take a little longer and I have no issues augmenting that with some acquisitions and I have no problems accelerating our cost reduction rebasing the cost of the company to be able to create momentum until we can get the innovation machine reignited again.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And then just on the financial side.
Jay maybe you can sort of help us talk through the difference between the 10% operating margin guidance that you provided at last May's analyst meeting and the 11% that you're presenting today for 2016? What are some of the factors that influenced the 100 basis point better performance? Great.
So there are a number of different variables that have impacted our performance since we sat together in the May.
I'll highlight maybe the four most significant.
As David pointed out we guided to an operating margin of 10% for 2016.
Obviously we're very pleased to report our expectations now are an 11% operating income margin.
One of the key drivers relates to foreign exchange.
The foreign exchange environment since May has moved very significantly.
We can talk later about EPS impacts but from an operating margin impact relative to our May expectations we're down about 1.4% in terms of margin impact due to foreign exchange.
As you'll recall in the second half of the year a lot of the emerging markets currencies moved while the developing markets currencies stabilized and for us because we don't hedge emerging market currencies it did have a 1.4% impact on our overall margin.
We did have higher than expected cyclo in 2016.
So as I pointed out in my prepared remarks we'll achieve about $180 million of cyclo sales in 2016.
That's roughly 1 percentage point higher than we expected.
We also have positive pension.
There are a number of impacts that we have with respect to our pension some of which we had anticipated in part related to the contribution of the retained stake but some of which we did not anticipate and that's about 60 basis points of improvement as we move to 2016.
But I will tell you the area that's most important as we look at the stability of the operations from my perspective relates to the operational performance and OpEx savings which contribute about a point of margin improvement relative to our May investor conference expectations.
So those are the four factors.
With cyclo and pension essentially offsetting FX and then the over achievement really in my view coming from operational strength.
Thanks for all the detail.
Our next...
Go ahead Stephanie.
Our next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning David.
Good morning Joe just a couple of questions here.
I'll start with strategic for Joe and then a follow-up maybe for Jay.
Joe just – I know we're not going to get a lot of commentary before May but just very broadly I know you've only been there a short period of time kind of a couple of questions for you.
The first is how do you see the balance of pursuing large M&amp;A in the near term versus delivering your organic margin plan? And if you think specifically about your hospital business and the four segments there do you have a sense of which segments are likely to see further investment versus which ones are likely to be optimized for return or cash? And then a quick follow-up for Jay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah David.
We almost there are completing that analysis.
We've put our portfolio through about five different filters and we actually have a pretty good idea of the things that we will invest for top line growth versus ROIC and ones that are strategic bets and ones that we're going to manage more for cash.
I would say to you.
I'm going to give a few examples.
We have a very good IPS business the integrated pharmacy solutions is a very good business and it's something that we probably can double down as an example.
We will be making organic investments possibly inorganic investments.
I just want to circle back to your comment about large size M&amp;A.
When we go down this path and we look at inorganic opportunities size is not what matters but the ability the ability to change the weighted average market growth rate of our businesses is key to us.
And those acquisitions will be singles and doubles.
They will not be big things in one shot.
We're going to make right decisions with our shareholders' money.
And we need to balance that well but we need to make sure also that we can successfully integrate and generate a step change in how we grow that business that we acquired.
So we'll be focusing great deal of our attention in the value the business brings to us strategic but IPS is a good place to start.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then Jay just on fluid systems it was the driver obviously in the quarter and it does seem to be the principal driver for next year's acceleration.
Can you give us a component right now what principally is driving the success? I know it's capital and consumable but can you give us a sense of how large of a role capital sales are playing in 2016 and any sense of backlog in terms of sustainability of those capital sales over the next couple of years? Thank you.
Yeah sure.
I mean look fluid systems really has two primary drivers of growth in the fourth quarter and then also as we move to next year we'll see similar levels of performance based on those two drivers.
And the first one I would say is the infusion systems business.
In particular in the U.S.
we had well north of 20% growth in our infusion systems business.
And breaking that down there's two components of that.
One is the sale of the SPECTRUM Pump which has recently relaunched and that clearly is capital related.
But as I think about the long-term sustainability of the business really we were very pleased with the sets associated with that.
And so we had very strong performance in set sales as well well into double digits.
So those were the two drivers on the infusion systems side.
From an IV therapy standpoint we've commented previously about the marketplace conditions some of the actions that we've taken and also continued demand for this important product.
And so we did report very solid growth in the IV therapy business as well well into double digits.
And so in combination these items contributed to -- in the U.S.
and my growth rates are in relation to the U.S.
-- the fluid systems growth that we reported of 27%.
So clearly this was a bright spot for us.
We do expect this to continue but of course not at the Q4 rates.
So we'll see some moderation as we move to the 2016 plan.
So overall very pleased with it.
Some of it is related to capital spending but as you know most hospitals have lacked for many years an attractive alternative from a pump standpoint for a variety of different reasons.
So we do believe there is some level of pent-up demand.
We have a fairly good line of sight to the sales plan for 2016 so this is an area that I think is really one of the growth drivers for Baxter in 2016 and beyond.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Mike Weinstein with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Jay just want to circle back to a couple of the line items in the guidance.
The share count guidance seems to imply that you're going to use $1 billion of the retained – the remaining Baxalta stake in the stock for stock exchanges.
Is that about right in terms of – is that about what you're applying in your assumptions for 2016? And if so why is that the right mix in terms of what remains? Yeah Mike maybe I'll take a step back and address the retained stake overall to address your question in totality.
From the retained stake standpoint there are two things that are very clear to us today: First as you know we're in the process of finalizing the bank line transaction which is going to reduce our gross debt by $1.45 billion.
That will be completed imminently.
The second item is in this quarter we expect to contribute more than $600 million in equity to our pension plan.
That of course is subject to Department of Labor approval.
So those things are in my view very definitive.
As we move on to the remaining transactions our preliminary plan is to pursue two additional transactions.
One is an equity for debt exchange and the second is an equity for equity split-off.
We currently expect to pursue the debt exchange early in Q2 and the equity exchange closer to mid-year.
There's going to be a number of factors that lead us to finally size these transactions but you're right: from a placeholder standpoint our current view is that we'll use at Baxalta's current price a little more than $2 billion to retire debt and a little less than $1 billion to retire equity.
But as I said before these transactions are subject to market conditions optimal pricing and our objective is to maximize long-term value and optimize economics with respect to these transactions.
So as far as definitive plans I can tell you these are our very preliminary plans but by no means definitive.
We're evaluating what the optimal mix is so there may be changes to these transactions as we move forward based on the receptivity of the market and a number of other factors.
As we finalize plans and execute transactions clearly we'll update guidance.
But you know we have enough information today to share with you these preliminary estimates which provide sort of some balance around the guidance range that were given.
In combination we expect about a $0.15 benefit this year.
There would be some increase to next year in part because the equity for equities transaction would occur very close to mid-year in this plan assumption and also the equity for debt exchange we'd have at least a quarter more of benefit rolling into 2017.
That's a great overview Jay.
Thanks very much.
And Joe let's just talk strategy for a minute.
So you touched on a number of the themes that you talked about in San Francisco including portfolio optimization and improving R&amp;D productivity improving the overall growth mix of the business and being in the top quartile of shareholder returns.
The big part of that is putting this Baxalta stake in ultimately your balance sheet to work to create value.
You talked about doing more likely a series of smaller deals to achieve those objectives.
As you think about that is the number one priority to accelerate the overall mix of growth in the company's end markets or should we look at it as more ROIC driven more margin driven? Maybe just help us think about if you're looking – if you have targets and if you're looking to do something in particular for the company is it accelerating the top line? Or how do we think about that mix? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we're going to Mike take a look at we have three to five years horizons.
Right? So what can we do to change the trajectory of the company's top line growth and bottom line? What comes first? So we need to – we already have embarked on this extensive operational excellence program to cut cost.
We're going to double down on that and become a little bit more aggressive.
That will create some momentum as we continue to look for the opportunities at the top line.
When you talk about the capital allocation at top line we have about four five businesses that we probably get a significant amount of investment from the company on the organic arena.
I'm going to talk more about that in May.
I don't want to pre-empt that now.
But also we're going to invest inorganically in opportunities for those businesses.
When we talk about how to hit it well we want to change – we want to buy business that they're growing faster than our current based business.
That is a pretty obvious thing.
The second thing is if we can combine that with good synergistic deal we'll do it as well.
And why do I put a bracket around very large deals? Because very large deals are very difficult to find.
We can keep looking for a deal like that.
It will take a couple of years versus just creating a really good strategy by looking at adjacencies and pairing (38:20) good businesses with acquisitions that makes sense.
I don't discard size being large but I'd just say it's much more difficult to encounter that than something else that will create value almost instantly and you can execute a little faster.
So I'm looking at this whole thing as a journey where we make sure that our cost is in place while we augment our internal innovation and supplement internal innovation with some really well thought out acquisitions.
Perfect.
That's helpful Joe.
Thanks.
I'll let someone else jump in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Mike.
Our next question comes from Bob Hopkins with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Oh thank you and good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Bob.
Good morning.
Good morning Joe.
Great to hear your voice.
A couple of quick questions.
First of all to start out with with Jay on the operating margin guidance for 2016 you're exiting the year at just below 11% and you're guiding for 2016 at 11%.
And it sounds like cyclo pension FX are kind of a wash.
So can you give us a sense as to what kind of underlying operating margin improvement you're assuming for 2016 relative to where you're exiting the year? Yeah there is an important point to make which is – and you know this about our business Bob.
We have seasonality which typically the second half of the year is stronger than the first half.
And the fourth quarter is typically one of the strongest margin quarters that we have in large part because of incremental sales performance that naturally occurs.
And so as we think about margin performance next year versus this year I do think it's important to look at the entire year holistically.
And if you think about the full year for 2015 we're at about approximately 9% margin going to the 11% that we've guided to.
So it is a fairly substantial step change improvement in margin.
The other point I will make is our Q1 guidance does have the lowest margin of the year.
Again in part driven by the fact that Q1 sales are typically the lightest because of all of the fixed costs we have in place there is some absorption that does not occur due to the lower level of sales.
So I think those are a couple of important points.
By and large we're very pleased with the margin improvement that this plan indicates.
The second half of the year was very important for us in large part because it gave us confidence that we could give solid guidance for 2016 and that we could operate effectively on a standalone basis.
But I do think it's important to consider the seasonality and the trending in margin when we think about 2016.
Right.
So maybe just year-over-year then ex the things that are affecting margins like cyclo pension and FX what kind of year-over-year underlying margin improvement are you assuming with the 11%? Yeah.
So essentially we're talking about as I said 200 basis points from 2015 to 2016.
And let me highlight a few items for you that impact that.
Cyclo is about 80 basis point or 90 basis point drag relative to 2015.
PROTOPAM is another item that we've discussed previously which is approximately a 30 basis point item.
Foreign exchange is about a 1.6 point on a year-over-year basis margin drag.
So it's a very substantial – relative to May it's less.
On a year-over-year basis it's even more than that.
The pension again is about a point of improvement year-over-year.
But then there are a number of other critical items and again these are the ones that I'm happiest to point out.
SG&amp;A savings we're talking about a two percentage point improvement in SG&amp;A.
R&amp;D savings we're talking about a 60 basis point improvement.
And then operationally because many of the initiatives that we're putting in place from a mix volume standpoint along with some of our pricing and economic value capture initiatives along with general business growth yields approximately a little more than one percentage point of margin improvement.
So I walked you through a number of items there and there's a lot of moving pieces that take us from the 9% to 11%.
But as I say there are a number of important ones that we can point to operationally that are really driving this improvement that I think based on the second half of this year we have confidence in as we move forward.
Great.
And thank you for that.
And then Joe just real quickly one of the questions that we're getting a lot from investors is you're articulating a plan to drive faster growth for the company on the top line basis.
And people are I think very curious as to how the balance will look what the balance will look like in terms of the need to invest in the business incrementally to drive that top line growth versus what investors are looking for in terms of operating leverage in the business as you look forward over the next couple years.
So how do you respond to that kind of question about the need to invest to get top line growth but the desire for people to see real operating leverage progress here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bob we need to look this in phases.
We need to bring the leverage at the same time that we invest meaning we need to accelerate some of our cost reductions.
Secondly our spending in R&amp;D today is adequate for the portfolio as we see in the near and midterm.
Meaning we don't need to spend more money than we're spending today as a matter of mix.
And if we need to spend more money we need to self-fund that and make sure that does not impact our earnings.
So this is not an investment story where we have an R&amp;D budget that is completely underfunded to deliver an innovation.
We just need to do a better job in allocating capital to the right franchise that have the chance to grow faster.
So I had mentioned for instance IPS.
We'll double down in IPS to be able to get more molecules to the marketplace so we're working on plans like this very rapidly.
But that is a reallocation of resources.
I want to make sure our investors are clear that as we work to accelerate our cost reductions to provide for improved bottom line we will create a mix change in how we spend money to be able to invest in the right things and concurrently look at some good acquisitions that will come in and create a momentum and change in our weighted average market growth rate.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Miksic with UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks for taking our questions.
So wanted to just one clarifying question Jay on Q1 guidance.
You mentioned the sort of puts and takes and I think some seasonal effects that maybe show for a little – the weakest quarter of the year in terms of margins and a touch below where we were expecting.
Was there anything else other than just absorption or was there any FX impact there that you can quantify? Yeah sure.
Just a couple of comments in terms of Q1.
Historically for Baxter Q1 has been the weakest quarter of the year with approximately 23% to 24% of full-year sales occurring in the quarter and 2016 is no different for us.
The result of that of course is you have a lower drop through both in terms of margin and then ultimately in terms of EPS.
And then there is another factor which is we do have a slightly larger FX impact in the first quarter than we do in later quarters in the year.
So roughly 40% of the FX impact on a full-year basis occurs in the first quarter of the year.
So really those would be the two items that I would point to.
There's nothing specific beyond that as we look at sales and performance in 2016.
That's great.
Thank you.
And then one follow up on one of the things that's driving much of your growth in the current portfolio of businesses is around pumps.
And really impressive number in Q4.
Stepping back and thinking about that business as we all know it has had its challenges in the past as a category.
And I just look to get an update on how you feel you're positioned with the new business coming in from SIGMA with some of the new FDA actions and guidelines on cybersecurity and some of the competitor that have had problems with that sort of new category requirement.
How you're positioned going forward to help sort of mitigate the risks of other kinds of problems that you've had in the past as a group in pumps not just Baxter obviously.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Matt this is Joe.
I can only speak about the Baxter product.
In terms of the industry you outlined well.
There's always a concern.
But this is not only – the only programmable pump that you have in that category.
You have (48:28) pumps you have all kinds of different things that fall into that category.
But speaking specifically about our business we have launched a really good product.
And you can attest to – the testament to it is the sales growth and how we are gaining back market share and how that business is doing well.
The team is executing very very well.
Our objective is to continue to improve the operation ability of the pump.
We have new versions coming up in a couple more years.
We have two more versions of the same platform.
We are very excited about the prospect to create some new features within this pump and we think in terms of cybersecurity our pump has performed well.
You can't in this area always guarantee 100%.
We're doing the best we can to make sure that the platform we have is safe and secure for the clinicians who are programming it for the patients who are receiving the fluid.
That's great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Larry Keusch with Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh hi.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Larry.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Joe I'm wondering if we could start out perhaps just talking a little bit about how you see the health of the emerging markets as you look into 2016.
And I'm not so much talking about FX rates but just more about just the baseline fundamentals within the various regions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well as you read the same headlines I do read there is a contraction in some of the major – the larger emerging market economies.
Very different in nature between China and Brazil and Russia but nonetheless we do 25% of our business in those regions.
I think one particular thing about our business is that we are not a physician preferred product in those regions and we are a hospital necessity.
So we're talking about infusion we're talking about dialysis and those products are needed.
So we have seen price pressure in those markets but we probably saw that ahead of many people because of the nature of the products.
So we feel that the risk of those markets for Baxter deteriorating further is pretty low.
With all that said is our responsibility to look at our portfolio in those countries and make sure that we're selling the right products to the right markets.
And we're going through that process as we speak.
But in terms of the headlines for Baxter is those are necessity products in hospital settings and we've seen most of the contraction already.
I'm not saying that we're not going to have them in the future but we are not a physician preferred product company in those markets.
So I feel very comfortable that our strategy at the moment is solid.
But going forward rest assured we're going to look at every region and every country to make sure that the business we have are profitable and have good prospects going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Terrific.
And then I wanted to Joe perhaps get at again the growth question a little bit differently.
And I think in your prepared comments you talked about reigniting the innovation engine at Baxter and so you talked about sort of reallocating resources to drive inorganic and you talked about potential – excuse me organic means and then potential organic opportunities.
But I guess as you've been there and I know it's a short time what do you really need to do to change again the ability of Baxter to innovate? Do you need to change the culture? Do you need to hire folks into these various categories to really drive the innovation? What needs to happen to get that engine ignited? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So just a comment on how new I am.
I can tell you I know where the cafeteria is because I eat there almost every day.
So the culture of the company is one of innovation for many years.
I think by not having Baxalta as part of Baxter today really puts the spotlight how we take those franchise that have been trusted in a long-term franchises around the globe and make them more innovative create adjacencies within our own capabilities our four walls here for organic growth.
And the culture that I'm passing on to our employees is very clearly is about having a strategic direction and that's about 10% of the conversation.
90% of the conversation is execution.
So it's making sure that once we make the allocation of capital to the right programs that our people deliver on time or better than that.
And that's all about execution.
So that's what I'm watching very closely because I think we have very very smart people at Baxter.
I'm not surprised but I'm very pleased with what I found here and I want the folks of Baxter to understand that from this point when we get this strategy going it's all about execution.
And I think I have everybody behind me when it comes to that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Terrific.
Thanks very much for the comments.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joanne Wuensch with BMO Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning and nice quarter.
And it's good to hear your voice on a conference call again Joe.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Couple of things.
First of all we haven't heard in a while where you are on home hemodialysis and if you can give us an update on that that would be great.
And then in no particular order second question is there a way to quantify the $600 million in FX – not FX pension impact on gross margins? And last but not least M&amp;A clearly is going to be a theme here.
Big picture thoughts on adding additional legs to the stool and how you think about that.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Joanne.
How are you? Listen I'm very very excited about home hemodialysis first of all.
It is what I call blue ocean for the company.
It is a great clinically needed innovation.
It is not a easy market to get in because the technology has to be absolutely perfect for bringing this therapy to the home.
But we think we have the right technology and working very hard to refine technology.
Right now we already have kicked off our U.S.
clinical trial for VIVIA and we're excited about that.
In Europe we have early patients and we're learning very quickly about our VIVIA platform and the use of this device is proving to be well received in Europe.
So we like our technology.
It is an area that I will call is a strategic bet and why is it strategic? Because it's high end market growth potential for good revenue per patient but more so the therapy itself is absolutely fantastic for the hemodialysis patient to be able to do this at home.
So we're going to continue to improve our technology and we will try to put some momentum behind accelerating the U.S.
trial as much as we can and work with the agencies and CMS and see if we can get this technology at a different level.
Joanne you asked a question about pension and quantifying and you commented on $600 million.
I think – I hope I didn't say that.
That's an overstatement in terms of the impact on operating margin.
On plan it's about 60 basis points which is closer to $60 million of unplanned benefit.
But maybe taking a step back to talk about the overall impact of pension overall we expect approximately a $0.14 benefit year-over-year from pension.
$0.07 roughly of that relates to the retained stake contribution that we plan to make in the coming month or so.
And then the remaining portion there's a few different pieces.
First the actual discount rate used to measure the liability has increased and the result of that is approximately a $0.035 benefit.
Second as we've evaluated our accounting for our pension plan we made three adjustments.
One is we updated the mortality table that we're using.
The second is we are now employing the recently approved methodology for accounting for discount rate and that's a benefit.
And then the return on asset assumption is an item that we've lowered.
So those three accounting changes that we've made impact us positively by about $0.02.
And then we have some amortized losses that are rolling off.
So that's about $0.01.
So in combination we're talking about a $0.14 year-over-year impact and importantly this counteracts some of the negatives like the lack of sundry income that we experienced in 2016 along with the significant headwind on foreign exchange.
But overall the pension impact is in that order of magnitude.
Thanks.
And the last question add a leg of the stool.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We will continue to work on inorganic and organic areas.
I would say to you that a leg of the stool may be just enhancing a franchise that we have.
We spoke about IPS and very very excited about that.
I like our specialty injectable business today and I think augmenting that can become a real good business.
And in terms of white space is a little early.
We need to kind of get our capital allocation going well and once we have that well segmented within our population and our management objectives then we can do a white space analysis and we will proceed on going down that path.
But we really have enough opportunities right now to augment the current businesses.
And their adjacencies as well.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Glenn Novarro with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Two questions: One in the fourth quarter your surgical business grew low single digits and you said it grew in line with the market.
And then for 2016 you're talking about the surgical business growing 3% to 4%.
So are you saying that you expect surgical volumes and utilization to pick up in 2016? Or are you just saying the better rates are more specific to Baxter? So any thoughts on utilization rates especially the U.S.
And then my second question has to do with the U.S.
renal business specifically with PD.
I know PD did better in the fourth quarter that was some of your new products.
But are you also seeing an increase in penetration in the U.S.
with PD? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Glenn how are you? Good.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So listen the utilization that we see I just want to clarify the next year's growth is 2% to 3% Right? For surgical care.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> For surgical care.
So the utilization remains at a good point in U.S.
I would say the U.S.
has shown really good resilience and we're happy about that.
There's a couple things about the surgical business one that our anesthesia gases are performing very well and we need to do a better job in our biosurgery business.
We're going to be coming up with some specific actions in terms of execution but also how we're going to manage that business on a global basis as well as that is an area that we probably should be looking to augment our portfolio.
It's a great area of opportunity.
Baxter has fantastic franchises within that category and we want to make sure we don't miss the opportunity to take advantage of the market growth.
So speaking about the PD business we are growing our patient basis.
So that is market share growth.
And I'm going to tell you our new technology new platform AMIA is fantastic and we're having some really early successes and we're looking for a very good 2016 in that arena.
Okay.
Great.
Welcome back Joe.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you Glenn.
Thank you.
This will conclude...
Thank you...
Yeah Stephanie we'll conclude the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call with Baxter International.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.