Good morning my name is Michelle and I will be your conference facilitator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to the General Cable Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Len Texter Manager of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Manager Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release from last night.
For those of you who have not it's available on first call and our website at generalcable.com.
I want to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provisions for forward-looking statements that can be found at the end of our press release.
The Safe Harbor provision identifies risk factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the content of our forward-looking statements.
Our current Form 10-K report and other periodic filings on file with the SEC provide further detail about the risk factors related to our business.
During this call we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA which is defined as earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization plant rationalizations and other items.
These non-GAAP company-defined measures are being provided because management believes they are useful in analyzing operating performance and cash flow before the impact of various charges.
A reconciliation of adjusted operating income and EBITDA to GAAP net income is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at generalcable.com.
The format for today's call will first be some discussion by Greg Kenny about the current business environment.
Secondly Brian Robinson will provide some financial details about the first quarter.
And finally Greg will provide some comments on the company's second quarter 2011 outlook and business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg Kenny.
Greg? Good morning and thank you so much.
I'm pleased to report a very strong start to the year continuing to build on several quarters of positive momentum.
For the first quarter of 2011 we reported revenues of $1.45 billion which was consistent with management's expectation and adjusted earnings per share of $0.79 which was well above our expectation.
These results reflect the benefit of stronger-than-expected operating results in North America and ROW.
In North America the magnitude of the improvement in a number of our end markets during the first quarter was more significant than anticipated.
In ROW we reported stronger operating results despite business conditions being somewhat uneven as the pace of economic recoveries across the numerous geographies vary and project releases fluctuate from period to period.
In Europe conditions continued to be difficult in terms of demand and price.
Overall our results reflect a firming price environment in North America as well as the flexibility of our operations and the excellent work of our business teams globally to identify and rapidly respond to volatile end market demand.
Our operating results also benefited sequentially from the absorption of overhead costs in the inventory as quantities were increased primarily in anticipation of seasonal demand trends.
The uneven demand patterns in ROW as well as the general market weakness in Europe and the Mediterranean discussed above also contributed to the increase in inventory quantities during the period.
Partially offsetting these better operating results were higher selling general and administrative expenses as salary freezes were ended and incremental investments were made in global selling and engineering resources as well as product technology.
We also have brought online a number of new facilities.
As they ramp up we incur costs.
In addition our results in the first quarter included a benefit of unrealized gains on mark-to-market adjustments of foreign currency and commodity financial instruments as well as a lower than expected effective tax rate.
Brian will take you through the details of the financials in  bit.
I thought I would spend some time talking now about how I see our current businesses globally.
In North America the first quarter was marked by strong demand for the company's electrical infrastructure and early-cycle products each improving sequentially as compared to the fourth quarter by 21% and 17% respectively.
Versus the prior year the company's electrical infrastructure products were up 40% and early-cycle products were up 12%.
Investment in fossil fuel extraction was an important driver of growth during the first quarter as demand for our specialty cables including those cables used in oil and gas as well as mining applications was particularly strong.
Additionally the successful commercialization of 17 FREE a line of halogen-free jacket designs for some of our data communication fiber-optic and electronic cables.
An LEED qualified design was also a meaningful driver of growth in the first quarter.
Excluding transmission products demand for the company's electric utility products was up 5% sequentially as compared to the fourth quarter driven by demand for our low- and medium-voltage products used in the distribution grid.
Nevertheless demand for utility products remains quite weak by historic standards.
In short our results in the first quarter in North America reflected the impact of improved demand higher capacity utilization rates and better pricing in several important product areas tied to industrial production and IT spending.
In ROW our first quarter results reflect the impact of stronger demand sequentially as compared to the fourth quarter in Central America the Andean Southeast Asian and African regions.
In addition we strengthened our market position and product range in Mexico Colombia Peru Australia and South Africa.
Overall there remains a great deal of opportunity in ROW as GDP rates from many emerging markets in aggregate continue to outpace those of the developing world particularly in countries such as Brazil Chile and Zambia as investment in electrical infrastructure construction and mining continues as well as communications infrastructure.
In Europe putting aside our project business our operating results generally move sideways sequentially when compared to the fourth quarter.
The market conditions during the first quarter were difficult in terms of demand and price.
We expect conditions to remain challenging throughout 2011 as excess industry capacity and the economic recovery in Europe remains fragile as monetary policy to address inflation a strong Euro and sovereign austerity measures weigh heavily on growth prospects.
However we are benefiting from our new Pan-European organizational design that nicely leverages the talents of our associates and allows our Spanish operations to benefit from other market opportunities in the region.
It is through the integration of our functional capabilities across our European operating units in the areas of sales and marketing manufacturing engineering and project management that have enabled us to capture opportunities in submarine power underground high voltage and offshore specialty cable markets and allowed us to continue to weather the generally difficult market conditions in the region.
During the quarter we started meaningful production on the EUR 195 million Baltic 2 Wind Farm submarine power cable project which is expected to be manufactured in 2011 and 2012.
We are also encouraged by the volume of terrestrial high-voltage and extra-high-voltage orders which we have taken for production and delivery around the world over the next few years.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian Robinson who will provide details of our financial performance for the first quarter.
Brian? Thank Greg.
Volumes measured by metal pounds sold increased 22% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and was down 2% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Volumes in the first quarter were slightly below our expectation principally as a result of uneven demand in the company's ROW segment.
Excluding the impact of transmission product shipments in North America which are coming off of a record-high fourth quarter in terms of metal pounds shipped global volume increased 20% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and was up 2% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
In North America excluding transmission products volume increased 16% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and was up 10% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
This sequential improvement in volume was principally driven by strong demand for the company's electrical infrastructure and early-cycle products.
Demand as measured in metal pounds sold for the company's electrical infrastructure products increased 40% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and was up 21% sequentially as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Key drivers of this growth during the quarter include demand for cables used in the industrial oil and gas and mining sectors.
In addition volume in the company's early-cycle businesses which include products for MRO OEM and networking applications increased 12% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and was up 17% sequentially when compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
In ROW volume was up 36% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and up 1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
The modest sequential improvement in volume principally reflects the uneven demand patterns experienced throughout the segment during the first quarter as infrastructure investment construction activity and project releases vary.
Sequentially as compared to the fourth quarter demand strengthened in the Central American South East Asian and African regions as well as in the Andean countries of Peru and Colombia.
Conversely the company experienced softer demand during the first quarter in Chile Venezuela and Mexico.
Collectively the lower-than-expected demand in these countries and in ROW overall relates largely to temporary factors as construction mining and utility projects are moved between reporting periods and government appropriations are authorized and infrastructure investment plans are advanced.
In Europe volume was up 7% compared to the first quarter of 2010 and down 4% sequentially.
The sequential decline was due to low-levels demand for our low- and medium-voltage products in France and Algeria and to a lesser extent the supply of offshore specialty cables manufactured in Germany which experienced a relatively strong fourth quarter.
During the first quarter of 2011 COMEX copper averaged $4.39 per pound compared to $3.93 in the fourth quarter of 2010 an increase of 12% sequentially.
Copper prices continue to be volatile reaching a quarterly high of $4.63 in February and a quarterly low of $4.13 in March.
We believe this volatility may impact the buying patterns of some distributors.
Operating income in the first quarter increased 16% or $9.9 million to $73.1 million compared to $63.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The sequential increase in operating income is principally due to price firming on a range of products in North America as a result of stronger demand for the company's industrial specialty and early cycle products.
Similarly uneven but better overall performance in our ROW segment contributed to the stronger results led by strength in Central America Andean South East Asia and African regions.
During the first quarter overall results benefited from the absorption of overhead costs in the inventory as quantities were increased in anticipation of seasonal demand patterns.
The uneven demand patterns in ROW as well as the general market weakness in Europe and Mediterranean also contributed to the increase in inventory quantities during the period a bit above anticipated levels.
Partially offsetting these better operating results were sequentially lower operating results in the Europe and Mediterranean region and higher selling general and administrative expenses as salary freezes were ended in parts of the business and incremental investments were made in our global selling and engineering resources as well as product technology.
During the first quarter of 2011 the company recorded other income of $7 million as compared to other income of $3.7million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The increase in other income is primarily due to unrealized gains on the market value of various foreign currency and commodity financial instruments as well as the strengthening of various foreign currencies relative to the U.S.
dollar.
We expect other income to continue to be volatile given sharp movements in currency and commodity prices.
The company's effective tax rate for the first quarter was approximately 33% which was better than expected partly due to the impact of permanent tax differences on a higher level of pretax earnings.
For 2011 we expect our effective tax rate for the year to be in a range of 30% to 33% which is expected to vary on a quarterly basis over the year with the second quarter of 2011 effective tax rate forecasted to be slightly below 30%.
Net debt was $679.8 million at the end of the first quarter of 2011 an increase of $153 million from the end of the fourth quarter of 2010.
The increase in net debt is principally the result of higher working capital requirements due to normal seasonal trends as well as the impact of rising raw material cost inputs.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations which could include increased working capital requirements as a result of higher metal costs internal growth and continuing product and geographic expansion opportunities.
At the end of the first quarter the company had approximately $1.2 billion in excess liquidity across the globe.
During the first quarter the company used $105.6 million of cash flow from operating activities principally related to a $176.8-million increase in inventory.
This increase is primarily due to the impact of higher raw material cost inputs on our inventory balances as well as increasing inventory quantities in anticipation of seasonal demand trends going into the second quarter following the fourth quarter inventory quantity reduction.
Also the uneven demand patterns experienced in ROW and the general market weakness in Europe and Mediterranean contributed to the increase in inventory quantities in the first quarter of 2011.
Reported net interest expense in the first quarter of 2011 was $22 million which includes $5.1 million of non-cash convertible debt interest expense.
That interest expense excluding the non-cash convertible debt interest expense charge was $16.9 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $13.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This increase was principally the result of higher utilization of working capital credit facilities during the first quarter of 2011 in order to fund the seasonal increase of inventory and higher raw material cost inputs.
Capital spending in the first quarter up $26.6 million was just below depreciation and amortization of $28.7 million.
For 2011 excluding the impact of any potential acquisitions or joint ventures we are anticipating capital expenditures in the range of $110 million to $130 million which is just above global depreciation and amortization with roughly half of that amount directed toward opportunities in the emerging markets as well as focused spending on the expansion of our product offering and capabilities in our specialty cables and submarine power cables businesses as well as supporting our global lean initiatives and continuous improvement in the areas of safety quality material usage and conversion costs.
With those comments I'll turn the call back to Greg for some final remarks.
Greg? In North America while economic indicators have generally trended positive and the manufacturing sector strengthens we remain a bit cautious due to a very weak construction sector higher energy prices stimulus withdrawal and volatile raw material costs all of this coupled with fiscally weak state and local governments and a record federal budget deficit.
In the second quarter we expect the normal seasonal improvement in demand from our utility customers while our other businesses in North America improve slightly after a strong first quarter.
In Europe we do not anticipate any significant improvement in overall demand patterns.
It appears a 2-speed recovery may likely continue throughout 2011 as governments address budget shortfalls and weakening domestic demand in many countries while Germany for example is again growing nicely.
The difficult overall regional end markets are exacerbated by conditions in Iberia historically our largest European end market where demand and pricing remain quite weak.
In ROW despite being uneven at times demand should continue to improve as GDP rates remain healthy infrastructure construction and mining investment continues and industrial production advances.
In the second quarter we expect volume improvement as projects are released and new investments made by the company continue to come online.
Overall despite stronger-than-expected demand during the first quarter in a number of our businesses in North America and certain regions in ROW global demand trends while positive have not significantly changed or accelerated.
We continue to manage through excess industry capacity in many of our end markets at highly competitive pricing.
Globally capacity utilization rates remain at relatively low levels about where we were in the second half of 2010 with some improvement in certain businesses in North America.
At the same time high and volatile commodity prices persist.
Our second quarter outlook assumes current metal prices improved volume of approximately 8% mainly as a result of seasonal demand trends an effective tax rate of just under 30% and no unrealized gains or losses on mark-to-market adjustments of financial instruments.
We also anticipate flat to slightly lower inventory levels by the end of the second quarter.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Rich Wesolowski from Sidoti &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> I know you guys try to avoid generalizing about statistics across the company but I was hoping you can give some perspective on the facility utilization today as compared to what you would expect in a strong economy perhaps adding where you may be running flat out and where you will be lagging your own expectations? Rich we really don't -- as you know we don't really measure utilization in a precise way.
We can run 5 days and sometimes we'll run a sixth on bottleneck operations or even a seventh and sometimes we'll go continuously.
But generally I would say without really the construction sector kicking in broadly -- that's residential and non-resi and non-resi I'm thinking beyond simply industrial construction we are not where we would be in a normal cycle.
And I would say we're generally in the low 70s in terms of what we could build globally.
LLC</strong> Okay and then secondly just going to the point on metals inflation the effect on your balance sheet do you think General has the potential to earn the sort of returns that you recorded in say 2006 2007 on assets and invested capital if metals prices stay where they are or even rise? And if fuel prices stay where they or even rise? Richard it is -- copper has moved up quite a bit and we're processing about 700 million pounds of it.
And we're seeing now that it's at $4.18 this morning.
And you can put that into the overall usage and do some math and conclude that we do have a higher capital employ.
We're working hard on the networking capital metric as a company.
Some of the differences from prior period: We're not anticipating Iberia coming back the way it was say '06 and '07.
But we do have a lot of new envelopes and new markets which have great potential.
So I don't know Rich.
We've talked about the marginal contribution on incremental volume.
And again metal's arguably -- we've been wrong on this a fair amount but with the production costs the $1.80 $1.90 a pound it's surprising to see this trading at more than twice production costs.
So I don't want to get into forward forecast but those are our levers.
And I would say we have more assets at the table in terms of opportunity but I think Spain has deteriorated and we do need a construction cycle to start again.
But I think we can certainly set that in our scope and we do have some businesses today that are at or above prior highs.
Some markets in the U.S.
are quite strong.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow research.
I was hoping to just parse out a little bit more the impact to EBIT during the March quarter from the sequential growth in inventory.
Just how much of a contribution to the EBIT dollar expansion was it? And then within the inventory build itself how much of that was actually metal pounds growth versus just copper or metal-related inflation? Yes Shawn it's Brian here.
Broadly when you look balance sheet to balance sheet the inventory moved $210 million $215 million in the first quarter.
So putting aside the currency impact as we said in the call about $176-million increase in inventory in the first quarter.
And this is to be helpful it's a best guesstimate.
I don't have perfect science but I would say the price part of that increase is call it in the $90 million to $100 million-type range with then the balance being say on the volume side.
And as a rule of thumb as you know we've historically thought about that -- when we get inventory -- when we're increasing inventory quantities the absorption -- and again I'd toggle some [ph] for a very global company but the absorption is probably about a 10% to a 15% kind of benefit.
So I think when I roll all that together we increased inventory across the company in Q1 probably the 2 regions where it was least expected or where we grew more as we noted in our comments were in ROW and Europe and Med for the reasons we noted around the uneven demand patterns and just general weakness in Europe and Med.
Okay and then the actual build ahead of volume was in North America per your commentary earlier correct? Well we always are immediately -- we have to think about how we flex our factories.
And we have returned to a seasonal peakiness around the second quarter.
So part of it is contemplating that.
But also we were -- frankly the demand did not materialize as hard in Europe and in some markets in ROW as we had anticipated which led to a little more build than we had wished.
So we'll end up adjusting in the second quarter where we'll more or less produce at a flat level with the exit from the March timeframe and then cover that increased 8% demand off of inventory which we built fundamentally during the first quarter.
Again you don't want to restaff factories.
You want to flex them up with overtime.
And you only go to a say 7-day schedule -- 24 hour 7-day schedule if you see a permanent elevated level of demand which we see in a few areas but not across the board.
Okay that's more than fair.
And then just a follow-up the commentary on pricing is pretty positive news at least in North America.
Is it a combination of just the demand environment getting better? Or are you seeing more of your peers get in line understanding that the market needs to pass through price increases? I think we have generally felt that you always -- we've talked in the past about general trends of more of the industry's public and with people's financial systems being more precise given the extreme volatility in raw material input costs -- and you need that to really manage the business -- I think generally as capacity utilization as well as a need to -- which drives real pricing.
And we've seen sharper utilization in our North American specialty cable which is really tied to infrastructure OEM kinds of work.
Our industrial products in the U.S.
as well as MRO maintenance repair and stuff and product that's used actually in OEM production say harnesses or internal wiring.
So anything tied to the industrial economy has picked up.
And as that utilization picks up it has the tendency to see price become a little stickier.
The other areas -- utility is still way down in North America in terms of where it was historically though it is coming off the bottom.
So we have a ways to go in that market.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
This is actually Jack Stimac filling in for Matt.
I guess if I could follow up on that last question it looks like in your guidance you're kind of assuming a lower gross margin.
Is that coming from some of the inventory build during higher copper prices working its way through? Or is it a mix issue? Or kind of what's driving that? Yes Jack I think it's a number of things.
Again when you look at a very -- obviously a very strong first quarter beyond our expectations in North America.
So yes the guidance as we move forward reflects as we noted some caution around the forward look and some of the macroeconomic factors as well as the -- in the first quarter as we noted we estimate we built volume-wise about $75 million to $85 million worth of inventories.
So the better absorption we had there will not appear again in the second quarter.
So that's really from an operating perspective.
And then from a broader perspective when you look at the EPS guidance the first quarter of course has the mark-to-market gains on the currency and the commodities which we forecast as flat.
So that's essentially a $0.09 headwind.
And then we get a little better on the tax rate by $0.03 or $0.04 or $0.05.
Jack I guess we have a lot of pieces moving around.
I think things do feel better and we -- I think in some segments in North America I am hopeful that we'll keep the pricing power that I think we've begun to see as utilization came up.
But I don't see the acceleration of demand in those earlier cycle businesses.
They're at a much higher and stronger level than they were but they're sort of rolling sideways in these businesses that we remarked had improved nicely in the first quarter versus fourth.
So I think there's a firming.
But again as I said in the earlier question with overall global capacity utilization somewhere in the 70s there's capacity looking for work in a lot of the areas.
And frankly Europe is behind where the U.S.
is.
I am optimistic in a number of the ROW locations.
And again some of that is simply project releases but some of those are stronger.
So net-net I think the inventory and sort of rolling sideways are the reasons that we're seeing the second quarter sort of roughly in line with the first.
Okay do you think the Q1 gross margin is something you can get back to later in the year? Or is it just kind of -- I mean assuming copper prices kind of stay flat -- because I mean I think right now they are down call it 2% sequentially from Q1 and I would assume that that stays that will kind of -- maybe give that a little boost.
But is that kind of 11.05% range is that something that you think you can get back to? Yes.
Well over time I would hope we could -- again at current metals we have businesses that are surpassing that now and surpassing it handily.
So I think it's -- as some of these markets continue to stabilize as we begin to see construction come back I would hope we would go by that without again getting into a forecast mode.
As I said we do have businesses there -- are much higher gross profit margins today and that's our objective as well as obviously continue to take cost out through lean manufacturing et cetera.
Okay and one last question kind of on SG&amp;A for the quarter.
I know you had said that some salaries had become -- that had been frozen kind of came out of that.
What kind of run rate should we think about for the rest of the year? And is there any kind of M&amp;A built into that that will kind of run out? And kind of what kind of leverage do you think you can get with kind of -- what kind of run rate as a percentage of sales should we expect it to get back down to? One of the things we've been doing that make us a little harder is we sort of have this balance that you always have leading a company between short-term and thinking long-term.
And clearly some of the startups that we have done where we've done greenfields and brownfields you add costs you begin to add volume to those facilities and then over time hopefully make that a handsome return consistent with your other businesses.
But as we bring those facilities up we create a run rate that is slightly dilutive near term.
Some measured in months or less and some of them take a year or more to go make money.
So we have a tendency to think about our core run rates.
And then as you know we've added a -- and brought online a facility in Peru in South Africa.
We're bringing one up in India.
We're bringing one up and are fully commercial in Mexico but these businesses typically add some cost ahead of the accretion if you will or net income.
And we've got some other places in mind again relatively modest.
But these new facilities typically are capable of $100 -- $50 million to $150 million in revenues.
And there's lots of ins and outs.
We did have our folks with salary freezes that went for 2 years some cases 3 years and we have begun to release that.
But Brian it's again is it -- the question is really core versus us continuing to bring up green and brownfields or acquire something.
And I think when you roll the model forward there is also a couple of million dollar component which is going to be currency.
Remember the weaker dollar was about 2/3 of our operations outside the U.S.
There is some inflation of that line item just from the transition.
But putting all that together run rate I would guide you towards is probably $90 million to $95 million reflecting all those factors.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve O'Brien from JPMorgan.
The price increases in North America I mean if you just look at crudely right at revenue divided by metal pounds I mean the price is up substantially.
Can you help us understand maybe how much of that is related to the mix of the cables? Clearly you're selling more higher value cables in the first quarter versus the transmission cables from the first quarter.
And then how much was from that pricing power? We have seen an improvement in our less copper-intensive products that say are different than transmission or even some of the heavy power cables that are larger-size distribution cables.
So we are seeing that realization per pound improve because these are sometimes 600V or 1kV or 5kV products.
While they are materials-intensive they have less copper in the cost of sales or less aluminum.
We also have seen a nice pick up in our industrial harness business and our data cable business which has less copper in the data cable particularly.
So that's all improving and it's a rich mix from that analysis.
What we have to think about as we think about quarter-to-quarter we have copper as we said distributor behavior.
Not all distributors but some can think about metal movements.
Copper is back down by $0.20 so we're watching again some behaviors as copper runs up.
People are afraid of being short of product.
And is it going to run up high? Right now it's back down to $4.18 after being in the $4.35 $4.40 level.
So we're always trying to think through that but generally those product areas have remained relatively strong.
But again demand can fluctuate a little bit by copper movement and just purchase timing.
But they are less metal intensive and therefore you're seeing that gross margin per pound probably pick up on balance.
Okay so I appreciate that color there Greg but maybe I could ask sort of an additional -- Is there -- as we move forward and utility maybe seasonally picks up how does that maybe -- how should we think of sort of price per pound here going forward in North America? Utility we're going to sell more utility products in the second quarter because that's one of our more seasonal businesses.
And we'll sell that primarily -- that material from inventory.
And I haven't -- I think thinking about different metrics on how to think about the business including price per pound is useful -- but I'm not prepared to give you guidance in a price-per-pound kind of format.
Brian do you want to comment? No I would agree with that.
All things being equal we'll have -- we would expect -- if some of this gets into the mix because we'll expect on the utility side to have some more aluminum than what we've had in the copper.
I think the other -- maybe the other observation I'd make Steve is as we -- if you look at sort of the run in copper and while we're endeavoring to get prices quickly as possible it was a fairly linear run for 6 7 8 months beginning sort of in July of last year.
So maybe Q1 reflects some of that ultimately that long run and ultimately we were pushing pushing pushing selling prices in the market.
And we saw some of that hit in Q1.
So I think there's a couple -- there's some mix going on and there's probably that continuously pushing price and maybe we -- and in the first quarter as Greg said copper leveled.
It rose in January and in February but then somewhat leveled off and was volatile in range.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then maybe -- I know you're not guiding on the next quarter and it's been challenging to forecast but do you see any kind of normal seasonality? I think Greg you might have touched on expecting Q2 as the seasonal peak.
Is that where you expect the business trend? And maybe if I can wrap up a question there too on the Europe side and the outlook for Q2 the demand to be stable how does Baltic 2 revenue start scoring as the year goes on? Baltic 2 comes in throughout the year and next year.
Baltic 2 is a big award but we win tens of millions of orders and hundreds of millions nothing individually quite as big in land and submarine businesses.
So we do have a larger percentage of completion business than we have had.
I think we'll see a year that feels better than last year that Europe -- again North Africa there is capacity there.
North Africa while we're making money there there's capacity looking for work there.
Spain is extraordinarily weak.
So I think Europe again is the tale of Northern Europe being a bit strong in the south but with a strong euro and so much adjustment going on in a lot of these countries I don't really expect Europe to fire up I think we'll continue to see trends in the interconnection area the submarine being attractive.
But to really see Europe fire up we need strong demand for construction and medium-voltage and low-voltage utility products also.
So I think our second quarter feels like we are returning to some normal seasonality in the business.
Things feel better.
ROW I think has some explosiveness in it.
And again well it does follow some of the seasonal patterns and holiday patterns.
It does have a project piece of it as well in government releases.
But I think second quarter probably will be our strongest.
But again we have seen in the past sometimes when something gets started we sometimes leave that departure or you start to see metals either run one way or the other and we know some customer behavior will wait around metals.
As you remember in our fourth quarter we said it was a bit stronger than we thought in part because maybe some customers are chasing rising metals right through the quarter.
And again we saw another rise of metals right through the -- from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
So look for the second quarter to be probably our strongest.
And I think these projects in the submarine area will build nicely over the next 6 quarters but not enough to -- it will wiggle but it won't be enough to turn Europe in of itself.
Great thanks for that and understood.
And just real quick what's the price of copper assumed in the Q2 guidance? It's around the COMEX $4.20-ish kind of level.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Beach from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Could you add some color on your geographies? In particular you did refer to -- in Europe Germany strong; and Iberia weak.
Maybe talk about a couple of the other important countries? There wasn't really I think any commentary or maybe I missed it about Middle East.
I'd love to hear what you see as the demand trends and if there's been any meaningful disruption? And then on North America this very strong sequential increase outside of Transmission I think -- what was it electric utility infrastructure up over 20% in volume for fourth quarter to first quarter what's happening in North America that caused that strength? If you'd just kind of go through some of the geographies that would be useful.
Sure.
In Europe we're most strongly leveraged to France and Iberia.
We have some position in Germany and in Italy.
But generally we're overweighted though that's changing in Iberia which is the weakest of the markets.
And we haven't seen any real positive improvement there.
What we have done is we've really organized Europe now like we have the U.S.
We're sort of a 1-company phase.
Europe was built through a series acquisitions so we're reaching I think on a more coordinated and decisive basis into other markets and we have some very good manufacturing facilities in Spain and we've had some nice improvement and productivity et cetera.
So Europe I think -- we are underweighed in Germany which is probably the strongest market but we are trading into Germany.
But we need to build that position and some of the northern European countries where we have a nice position in Norway.
But it's -- other than the exports out of Germany and France has been relatively stable and didn't have a housing boom per se it's really the weakest area in the world with Spain and Portugal being the weakest of any place other than U.S.
Utility really hasn't changed.
While it has come up off the bottom it's still very very low.
I'm putting aside transmission but utility I think we need increased energy usage and we need construction starts to come.
But it is -- it does seem to be bottoming and up modestly.
The U.S.
I think weak dollar and I think we're seeing to the extent we have manufacturing assets in this country they're busy.
And there hasn't been a lot of new capacity added in the U.S.
I think existing capacity whether it's petrochemical or even oil and gas drilling feels good.
But again we need shopping malls and office buildings and housing to really get the utility picked up by the strong synchronization.
But these so-called early-cycle or anything tied to industrial production whether it be physical assets or the actual production itself or MRO has been surprisingly strong.
And IT we've picked up some position with a lot of new product development in that area but the IT or Datacom area is also strong which we think of is a fairly early-cycle decision.
But moving into the second quarter we really -- other than some of the timing on our projects out of Europe which is the most project-intensive business we're not seeing a broad breakout in Europe in terms of demand.
We have seen -- obviously we're in Egypt and also in Algeria.
We worry about whether business will pause on future investments in those countries though generally we've continued to bring our best practices around cost and other products into those areas.
So I think we're helping ourselves.
And they're profitable not as profitable as we want but we are watching to see how investors react to the changes in Europe and to uncertainty in the region.
But they are positive.
As you know most of our business is fairly late cycle and we're still doing projects that were started before the Arab spring.
In the rest of the world I feel very good about our Latin American position.
A lot of natural resource leverage there and we feel we have a lot of momentum and understanding in that market.
So I feel very good about Latin America.
Africa Sub-Saharan Africa I think has been relatively weaker but it seems to be improving somewhat.
And then really our whole Southeast Asia is I think generally improving.
And we've done a lot of good things in terms of leveraging the Phelps Dodge assets with existing General Cable assets to think through supply chain and other things.
So again not a breakout globally in a major way but if you look at it versus where we were prior year we're happily talking about 20% and 30% times of unit growth in many of the sectors with the exception of Europe.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> The second question I have is about pricing over the last several months.
Into the first quarter you were coming into surging copper through January.
And then copper goes sideways but what I hear from a lot of cable companies is there's been broad price increases at least attempted.
Can you talk about the breadth of your price increases and success at getting them to stick? Well I think -- I touched on it earlier I think we did get pricing power in a number of the North American businesses and then we see a bit in the ROW area.
But again we're both trying to get real price as well as catch-up with metals and petrochemicals and steel and transportation.
But I would say there has been stronger pricing power happily than we had forecasted the first quarter in several of the North American segments which are -- now what we sort through is metal backing off somewhat and demand sort of rolling sideways in those areas.
We hope the pricing stays.
And return on capital and return on investment is how we think about the world.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson &amp; Co.
[Technical Difficulty] Okay sorry about that.
On the Europe and North Africa segment more of a clarification question from me but you saw a 150 basis-point increase in margins and maybe some more modest volume growth.
And given your commentary it sounds like pricing is still challenging now.
Can you just give me a sense of sort of what's driving that margin expansion in that segment? You're talking about Europe and North Africa margin expansion in this first quarter versus fourth? First quarter versus last year.
Last year was probably the depths of lots of the crisis although we've moved sideways throughout a lot of the year.
So a big part of it would be continuing to -- as we talked about -- we're organizing the regional operations.
So getting some of those benefits.
Remember also we took the actions in last year take out the Spanish --  to take permanent cost out of the Spanish work force as well as to create some flexibility.
So I think that's another -- so we're seeing -- we should be seeing some of those savings come through as we talked about at the time.
We felt that was worth probably -- we said I think around $10 million a year.
So I think it's -- you're right it's better but these are still pretty difficult -- this is still a pretty difficult operating region.
We were taking headcount out through the P&amp;L and I think finally called out specifically when we had a major -- even larger force reduction in the second or third quarter of last year in Europe.
But business conditions in Iberia -- again we are 12 months to 18 months in many areas behind the investment construction cycle.
Iberia is no better.
Our cost position is better and obviously this is a test of wills as competitors have to finance their working capital and have to get through this.
So eventually you would expect to see restructuring in some of these markets as they continue through extreme pressure.
And I think also we've been able to sell a lot of the Spanish capacity globally because they're very good at lots of specialty products as well as we're opening up new markets.
But generally Europe doesn't feel a whole lot better than a year ago though I think we're helping ourselves both through cost out as well as having entered the submarine cable business and we're doing nicely and developing products around DC high-voltage land terrestrial systems as well as winning our share of business around the world in high-voltage systems where we are using the Phelps Dodge assets as well as the CLEC know-how to really offer one face to customers who want a turnkey system.
And that's been a nice accelerant for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Kure from KeyBanc.
Just a couple of quick questions.
The volume's sequentially up in the ROW segment sequentially.
And then I'm just looking at the margins down sequentially from that fourth quarter -- actually they were up a little bit in the fourth quarter but down from say the earlier part of last year when you were sub $400 million in total revs but margin's much higher.
Just trying to figure out what's going on there from a margin perspective? In the rest of the world? Yes.
It depends in part what we're selling.
So we're ramping through our major overhead transmission line build in Brazil which is a good return on capital business.
But a return on pounds can wiggle things around.
Generally the business mix other than Brazil picking up -- because these transmission lines which should again be EPS accretive but would hurt that kind of map because it's just sort of a business that's dramatically expanded.
There's always wiggling but there hasn't been a fundamental change in what we do besides that Brazilian buildout.
And clearly a major entry into Mexico and a startup in Peru though we've been selling there but we are selling -- we built a factory in Peru and have added an asset in South Africa.
And we're in a start-up mode in India.
[indiscernible] facility.
Okay and then just based on what the current copper price is -- you talked about the impact on the distributors their buying patterns and sort of their sentiment going forward.
What's the slight sequential decline in the second quarter? Would that imply that distributors are probably less -- have less of a sense of urgency now than they did maybe relative to the first quarter? Yes again the best -- I should say many distributors are focused on working capital terms and they're doing things to get velocity up.
We do see some that again think about metals and with copper backing off they don't have maybe the urgency to cover quarters that they may not have covered.
But copper's off about $0.20 $0.25 a pound and that's always wiggling through our business at a very short cycle.
They can't do it for long but they can grow inventories or shrink them depending on what they think.
It has stabilized again in the last days around this $4.20 mark but it has been quite volatile sometimes $0.05 to $0.07 a day.
I think that's more at the noise level and again with some distributors.
But it's enough to make noise quarter-to-quarter for sure.
Okay and then just with the storms the tornadoes and the tragedies in the southern U.S.
this last month or so last couple of weeks.
Would that have any impact into the second quarter? Or what would -- if you were to have an impact would that be more of a second half of '11 event? Well they'll draw from their own inventory generally for emergency restoration.
There may be some replenishment.
Sadly these storms come but they're usually maybe -- there may be $5 million or $10 million of demand that comes from it.
Depends on what properties they're in where they've gone the relative inventory position.
But again it's important but not -- in a company that's doing $1.5 billion in revenues on the margin it's something.
But it's not enough to really change the quarter by a heavy or large amount.
Okay I was just trying to gauge the scale of something of that effect.
We have things like that going on at all times.
I mean they're in a 20-year rebuild in Christchurch New Zealand which is where our factory is because of the earthquake there.
So yes.
I mean sadly natural events do affect business but we're big enough that it's sort of on the margin.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Levy from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Hey you mentioned sort of a some higher cost due to ramping up of new facilities.
From sort of the lowest point in the downturn to now how many new facilities have you brought back up? Well we haven't brought any factories that -- we didn't have anything that was mothballed but we have had to expand our utilization and existing envelope.
As you may remember we closed one down in Canada.
We converted a factory in Mexico from communications products to communications plus electrical products.
We've constructed a few new facilities and markets that we were underweighted in and wanted to enter in a more profound way.
But we haven't had any mothballed facilities that I can think of that have been brought back up so to speak.
All right and then you referred quite a bit about sort of the substitution potential of aluminum for copper? It's mainly been stuff we've been hearing from the copper guys and the aluminum guys.
In the applications as you look across a spectrum is there any opportunity to I don't know get a little bit of savings or enhance your margins by swapping copper for aluminum? Well the business is heavily standards-driven.
And in some countries even in -- copper-covered aluminum could be a way that things are done.
You can make a substitution over long periods of time.
You need different connectors and some people get focused on what's in their network.
And the integrity of that is -- cable is maybe only 5% to 15% of a job cost because labor connectors et cetera would dwarf it.
But we have seen some substitution where it's easy to do say in industrial power cables where it's on a private network in a sense.
And as long as it's approved they can move easily between copper and aluminum.
So I would say you might see cable -- 4% or 5% of overall demand can maybe move back and forth.
But for someone to re-engineer their network as you know copper has a narrower footprint meaning it can carry more current on a cross section.
So in cities they're reluctant to go to aluminum because it takes more duct space up and they don't have that type of premium.
So net-net I think it's a 4% or 5% kind of swing though we pay attention to it and we do see it more swinging around our industrial product line where the specifier can move pretty easily.
And are you guys undertaking any initiative to sort of move any of your product lines more towards aluminum? No.
We do both.
As you know we do about 300 million or 350 million pounds of aluminum a year and maybe around 750 million pounds of copper.
And we get paid as we've said we think over a period of time on the value added beyond the metal.
And so we are thinking about what's the right application for the customer but it's fairly customer-specific it's code-specific.
We sell in 100 countries.
There are multiple codes in each country depending on the product and the utility.
So there is a concerted effort on our part to switch customers one way or the other.
What we're doing the time on is breakthroughs in high-speed data cables or jacketing design or flexibility or cables that exceed standards that we can be paid for because of the work that those cables do.
And that's where we spend our time.
But really we think a lot about metal forming and chemistry but we aren't trying to overtly convert customers from one conductor to the other.
And your last question comes from the line of Steve Gambuzza from Longbow Capital.
Just a quick question clarifying Brian's remark on the absorption benefits from the inventory build of kind of a 10% to 15% rule of thumb? Would you apply that to just the volume piece or to the entire piece including price and volume? Yes the reason we bifurcate is really -- the intention is to apply it against the volume as a surrogate of what's -- again a rough surrogate of what's flowing through the facilities where as the price is something that obviously we can't do much about.
Okay and it sounds like the -- so you had a roughly $90 million or $100 million volume build sequentially in the quarter and that occurred kind of globally in North America because you wanted to build inventories and in the other regions because of some kind of lumpiness in the sales? That's correct but let me just clarify.
My estimate was $90 million to $100 million on price.
It was $75 million to $85 million on the volume side.
And then I think there was a question about kind of the seasonality in earnings if you expect the normal seasonal pattern to emerge in earnings this year.
And I just wanted to make sure I understood Greg's comment.
It sounded as though if -- that was the expectation but that one scenario you might see where that would not play out is if you just saw a continued strength in rest-of-world kind of driving an abnormal seasonal pattern.
Was that a fair characterization of the remarks? Yes you're right.
I think the things that could change it are -- some of the projects in ROW can get hot and move and that is probably an area of general strength and I think a source of positive surprise.
The other thing that could change it is if you see copper move down dramatically or up dramatically.
Again you could look at all the cost curves but if copper's cost is somewhere between $1.50 to $2 a pound if it retreated down you might have distributors wait to see where she bottoms.
And if it ran up we could actually -- I mean if it ran hard in the third quarter from say $4.18 today to $6 a pound you might have people begin to pull them in forward because it's taking off and they need to cover commitments they've made.
So I think those are the things that could have the greatest effect on inventing the seasonality which I think is returning to something more normalized.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Sarah and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to the General Cable Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Manager Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; Bob Siverd our General Counsel; Greg Lampert our President and Chief Executive Officer of General Cable North America; and Pat Gorman our Vice President of General Cable North America Energy Market Strategy and Development.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release from last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and our website at generalcable.com.
I want to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision for forward-looking statements that can be found at the end of our press release.
The Safe Harbor provision identifies risk factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from the content of our forward-looking statements.
Our current Form 10-K report and other periodic filings on file with the SEC provide further details about the risk factors related to our business.
During this call we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA which is defined as earnings before interest taxes depreciation amortization plant rationalizations and other items.
These non-GAAP company-defined measures are being provided because management believes they are useful in analyzing the operating performance and cash flow before the impact of various charges.
A reconciliation of adjusted operating income and EBITDA to GAAP net income is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at generalcable.com.
The format of today's call will first be some discussion by Greg Kenny about the current business environment.
Secondly Brian Robinson will provide some financial details about the second quarter.
And finally Greg will provide some comments on the company's third quarter 2011 outlook and business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Len and good morning.
I'm pleased and encouraged to report a solid second quarter building on the strong momentum generated in the early part of the year.
In the second quarter we benefited from sequentially better operating results in North America and Rest of World.
Results in our Europe and Mediterranean region were sequentially weaker and continue to lag our other businesses.
Our results reflect the importance and positive impact of our long-term strategy centered on product and geographic diversity.
Our fundamental long-term view of the business remains intact.
Our reported revenues of $1.53 billion were slightly below our earlier communication principally as a result of sequentially flat global buying.
Our reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.77 was within our range of expectation as better operating results in North America and ROW help to offset the impact of $0.05 per share of foreign currency translation losses as well as a slightly higher than expected effective tax rate which was equivalent to about $0.02 of earnings per share.
Our earlier indication assumed no foreign currency transaction gains or losses and an effective tax rate of just under 30%.
Overall we are encouraged by the momentum we continue to experience in our global business as volume measured in metal pounds sold increased year-over-year for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Equally encouraging are the contacts -- are the contracts we are recently awarded in our Project Systems business in Europe and the Mediterranean and the progress of our investments and strategic locations around the world in ROW.
Brian will take you through the details of the financials in a bit.
I thought I would spend some time talking about how I currently see our global business environment.
During the second quarter in North America we benefited from seasonally higher demand in our Electric Utility and telecommunication businesses.
In addition we continue to benefit from stable demand and steady momentum on pricing for products tied to information technology natural resource extraction and electrical infrastructure.
Excluding transmission products demand for the company's electric utility products in North America improved 4% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and was up 11% sequentially as compared to the first quarter.
The sequential improvement in volume is principally due to seasonal demand for our low and medium voltage products used in the distribution grid.
Our data communication team continues to be a source of strength as we leverage the successful commercialization of 17 FREE a line of halogen-free jacket designs for certain of our data communication fiber optic and electronic cables.
Natural resource extraction remains an important driver of demand for our specialty cables including those products used in mining and oil and gas applications.
In short our results for the second quarter in North America reflect the impact of seasonally better results in our electric utility and telecommunication businesses as well as stable demand and the carryover traction gain on pricing in several important product areas tied to IT spending and electrical infrastructures.
In ROW our strategy of introducing a broader product range into developing markets helped to offset the impact of lower-than-expected volume across a number of countries.
The uneven demand experienced during the second quarter is largely episodic as the fundamental growth drivers remain solid and GDP rates for many emerging markets continue to outpace those in the developed world.
Sequentially our second quarter results reflect the impact of stronger demand in Venezuela Brazil and Zambia.
In Venezuela the company benefited from higher spending on electrical infrastructure as the country works to reinforce a weak power grid.
In Brazil our results reflect the aerial transmission shipments and the introduction of specialty products as the country continues to industrialize while at the same time preparing for the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympic Games in 2016.
In Zambia our results reflect the shipment of aerial transmission products as the government invests in expanding its power grid.
In addition we strengthened our market position and product range in Colombia Peru Australia South Africa and Mexico.
In Mexico we recently qualified and supplied our first high-voltage cables.
Our market penetration into Mexico continues ahead of expectation and is supported by a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility with high-voltage capabilities ranging up to 225 kilovolts and a comprehensive line of products for electric utilities and contractors.
Overall our results in ROW continue to demonstrate the non-linear nature of our business in the short-term as construction mining and utility products are moved between reporting periods government appropriations are authorized and infrastructure investment plans are advanced.
In Europe seasonally better operating results in France and sequentially higher contributions from our project systems business in Germany were more than offset by broader weakness throughout Europe particularly in Iberia.
Market conditions during the second quarter were difficult in terms of demand and price and are expected to remain challenging throughout the remainder of 2011.
However during the quarter we were awarded 3 meaningful projects in our submarine power cables business that roughly EUR 150 million together.
Our ability to win these projects is largely due to our pan-European organizational design which leverages the manufacturing engineering and project management expertise of our Spanish French and German operations.
We expect production and installation of these cables in 2012 and 2013.
We are pleased with the momentum we are seeing in our project systems business for both submarine power and terrestrial high and extra-high-voltage cables.
As many of you have seen in our press release issued on July 6 we received a statement of objections from the European Commission communicating its preliminary view in regard to possible infringement of European competition law in the submarine and underground power cables businesses.
The statement of objections issued to General Cable alleged that 2 affiliates in Europe engaged in violations of competition law for a limited period of time in the underground power cables business only.
Historically we have not been engaged in the high-voltage submarine power business and only recently entered the submarine power cables business in March 2009 through our subsidiary in Germany which was acquired in 2007.
The company believes it has substantial defenses to the allegations contained in the statement of objections.
However if our defenses are not successful the European Commission has significant discretion in assessing fines and the statement of objections has only provided a limited guidance on how it could potentially assess fines on each of the named wiring cable companies alleged to have violated applicable competition laws.
While we continue to incur legal and associated costs in this matter we are unable at this time to estimate the range of losses if any that may result as an outcome of these proceedings.
We have not been named as a party to any other cases or proceedings which have been brought by competition authorities in various countries against companies in the submarine and underground power cables businesses.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian Robinson who will provide details of our financial performance for the second quarter.
Brian? Thanks Greg.
Global volume as measured by metal pounds sold increased 12% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and was flat as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Sequentially higher seasonal demand in North America was offset by lower volume in the company's ROW and Europe and Mediterranean segments.
In North America volume increased 15% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and was up 6% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
This sequential improvement in volume was principally driven by normal seasonal demand patterns for the company's electric utility and telecommunications products.
Demand for the company's electrical infrastructure and networking products increased 16% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and was flat sequentially.
The strong demand experienced in the first quarter for cables used in the industrial oil and gas and mining sectors as well as products used in networking applications stabilized during the second quarter.
In ROW volume was up 16% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and was down 4% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
In Southeast Asia a sequential decline in volume of 11% was partly due to product mix as the company sold a mix of lower metal content products during the second quarter relative to the metal intensive aluminum-based fair distribution in building wire products that shipped in the first quarter.
In addition volume declined 10% sequentially in Central America and Mexico as electric utility customer orders were pushed into the third quarter and the business environment particularly in Mexico remains intensely competitive.
Partially offsetting this weaker volume were better sequential results in Venezuela Brazil and Zambia where the company benefited from higher spending on electrical infrastructure and a shipment of aerial transmission cables.
Overall despite the lower-than-expected volume in the second quarter year-over-year demand remains strong in ROW with volume up 16% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and up 25% over the first half of 2011 as compared to the first half of 2010.
In addition the company continues to benefit from the diversification and expansion of its product offering in developing markets through the introduction of industrial specialty in data communication products.
In Europe volume was up 4% compared to the second quarter of 2010 and down 3% as compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Seasonal demand for electric utility products in France and higher volume associated with our project business in Germany were more than offset by broader weakness throughout Europe particularly Iberia.
During the second quarter of 2011 COMEX copper averaged $4.16 per pound compared to $4.39 in the first quarter of 2011 a decrease of 5% sequentially.
Copper prices continue to be volatile reaching a quarterly high of $4.50 in April and a quarterly low of $3.90 in May.
Copper prices today are now back in the $4.40 to $4.50 range.
This volatility may impact the buying patterns of some distributors.
Operating income in the second quarter increased 9% or $6.7 million to $79.8 million compared to $73.1 million in the first quarter of 2011.
The increase in operating income was principally due to seasonally-better results in electric utility and telecommunication products as well as stable demand and steady momentum on pricing in North America for products tied to information technology natural resource extraction and electrical infrastructure.
In ROW strong results were principally driven by the strength of our businesses in Venezuela and Brazil.
The company benefited from higher spending on electrical infrastructure in Venezuela and the shipment of aerial transmission cables and the introduction of specialty products in Brazil.
Partially offsetting these improvements were lower operating results in Europe and Mediterranean and sequentially lower absorption of inventory overhead costs as inventory quantities were generally flat as compared to the first quarter excluding the impact of advanced purchase of copper in Venezuela.
During the second quarter of 2011 the company recorded other expense of $3.9 million as compared to other income of $7 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Other expense in the second quarter is primarily due to foreign currency transaction losses which resulted from changes in exchange rates in various countries in which the company operates.
We expect other income expense to continue to be volatile given sharp movements in currency and commodity prices.
The company's effective tax rate for the second quarter was approximately 32% which was higher than expected partly due to the mix of income generated in higher-tax jurisdictions.
For 2011 we expect our effective tax rate for the year to be in the range of 30% to 33% which is expected to vary on a quarterly basis over the year with the third quarter of 2011 effective tax rate forecast to be around 25% primarily as a result of tax provision releases tied to statutes of limitations expirations.
Net debt was $679.8 million at the end of the second quarter of 2011 an increase of $17.3 million from the end of the first quarter.
The sequential increase in net debt is principally the result of funding $39.7 million of copper purchases made during the second quarter of 2011 in Venezuela as the company received authorization to import approximately 9 million pounds of copper that will be utilized in production over the second half of the year.
Net debt at the end of the second quarter remains elevated as compared to the end of the fourth quarter of 2010 due to higher working capital requirements as a result of normal seasonal demand trends and high raw material cost inputs.
At current metal prices we expect net debt to decline over the second half of the year as working capital unwinds and inventory levels are reduced as a result of normal seasonal patterns.
In the third quarter we expect to reduce global inventory levels by $100 million or more.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations which could include increased working capital requirements as a result of higher metal costs internal growth and continuing product and geographic expansion opportunities.
At the end of the second quarter the company had approximately $1.2 billion of excess liquidity across the globe.
The refinancing of our senior secured credit facility in the U.S.
and Canada announced last week enhances our financial flexibility to fund our working capital requirements and capitalize on global development opportunities.
Reported net interest expense in the second quarter of 2011 was $21.6 million which includes $5.1 million of non-cash convertible debt interest expense.
Excluding the non-cash convertible debt interest expense charge net interest expense of $16.5 million in the second quarter of 2011 was in line with the $16.9 million reported in the first quarter.
Capital spending in the second quarter of $28.9 million was in line with depreciation and amortization of $28.8 million.
For 2011 excluding the impact of any potential acquisitions or joint ventures we are anticipating capital expenditures in the range of $110 million to $130 million which is just above global depreciation and amortization with roughly half of that amount directed toward opportunities in the emerging markets as well as focused spending on the expansion of our product offering and capabilities in our specialty cables and submarine power cables businesses.
With those comments I'll turn the call back to Greg for some final remarks.
Greg? Thanks Brian.
Looking forward in North America we expect lower seasonal demand from our utility and telecommunications customers while other businesses in North America move sideways following the second quarter.
In Europe we do not anticipate any significant improvements in overall demand patterns.
The seasonal impact of the summer holiday calendar in Europe is expected to be partially offset by project-related activity and the excellent progress we are making in developing a regional business model with greater market coverage and an improved cost position.
In ROW we expect volume to increase as construction and mining projects are released aerial transmission products in Brazil are shipped and industrial production advances.
Overall we are encouraged by the momentum we continue to experience in our global business as volume during the second quarter increased year over year for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Equally encouraging are the contracts recently won by our project systems business in Europe and the Mediterranean and the progress of our investments in strategic locations around the world in ROW and North Africa.
We expect to continue to grow the global business over time as we further broaden our product portfolio through the introduction of industrial specialty and data communications products into developing markets and recent investments made by the company continue to come online.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jeff Beach of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> You referred in some of your comments to shipment delays in the emerging markets Rest of the World.
Could you -- there was a shortfall there from your expectation.
Could you give us some more color on that shortfall? And particularly you have an estimate of how much dollars of shipments were delayed into the third quarter from the second quarter and why are project shipments delayed and -- I know why they are delayed here in the U.S.
but why are they delayed in some of the emerging markets? The ROW business has a large piece of building infrastructure for the first time including the aerial transmission business.
And we've talked in the past about everything from permitting in Brazil as they go through the Amazon et cetera.
So the ROW business has a fair amount of project-intensiveness and as you know from your analysis of the U.S.
market the reasons are sometimes different but governments and funding and permitting aren't necessarily linear.
So we see a strong -- a stronger second -- third quarter versus the second and that I think there are some push in there it's millions of pounds and it's occurring in Brazil.
Thailand had some projects moved around.
Chile a bit but it's -- our sense of the developing world remains intact in terms of the optimism we feel about those markets.
It's just that projects the contractors and releases and deliveries.
We think about this business over a year not necessarily by quarterly cut-off.
So sometimes we miss it but we do see a third quarter in ROW that is stronger than we would have anticipated in part because of the pushover of projects.
So if the ROW region could be up 15% to 20% from a tonnage basis from the second quarter so I think that says it all.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
As a follow-up question on the third quarter guidance much higher volume and revenues hitting you've got lower earnings with almost all of these lower earnings on better volume coming from what looks to be a very large target to reduce inventories.
You're exactly right Jeff.
As you know we are interested in return on capital employed and as we -- again we've had a strengthening in ROW which well need to go ahead and deliver but generally the U.S.
is coming back from an inventory standpoint.
In Europe we had the U.S.
factories closed for a week or 2 in July.
And in Europe as you know there's a shutdown there in August.
So that's driving that in part and clearly we lose some absorption where we don't run the factories but we're looking at having exactly the right balance over time and we built product in ROW that needs to get shipped but that's the only area that really is accelerating substantially in the third quarter which you would normally think is somewhat weaker than the second based on history from a demand standpoint.
Your next question comes from Matt McCall of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
So I want to follow up on that last question.
So are there other puts and takes? Is there any mix impact implied in the Q3 guidance on the gross margin line? I'm trying to understand the magnitude I haven't done a quick math on the $100 million but I'm trying to understand the magnitude of the impact on the expected gross margin from the inventory reduction and then what else may be driving it? My understanding is price cost is getting better.
You're implying better volume.
Obviously that's offset there but just walk me through on the other sources of impact.
Outside the principal impact sequentially is around the inventory reductions.
So as we said we're working towards $100 million or more and then generally we've said that that's probably to the bottom line worth about 10% to 15% of that inventory number meaning that sequentially we'll have fixed costs which will go directly to the P&amp;L in the third quarter.
So that's the biggest piece of it.
There are other elements more in the mix side on the fringe around say aluminum shipments in Q3 in ROW principally in Brazil and Venezuela and I think Zambia.
So it's mainly the inventory which on the fringe a little more around the mix.
Our gross profit per pound in transmission while it can be highly attractive from a return on capital employed so as you know that's heavy material content.
So as those transmission projects are released it could put some noise in your gross profit per pound kind of thinking.
That's helpful.
So if I just do that quick math using your guidance and the adoption of $100 million in inventory it would take your inventory as a percent of sales next quarter down below 20%.
You haven't been there a while.
Is part of that just the seasonality and the impact therein with the plant closures? Or is this a level that you -- is it more of a level that you're trying to reach rather than the impact of the plant closures? I think we have focused hard on networking capital as a percentage of sales and all that implies which is beyond the forecast incoming orders as well as you can and velocity cycle time of the factories and then working seamlessly with your suppliers.
So it's a large part of our thinking.
Always has been but I would say it's something that we have really concentrated on this year and it's part of the metrics as we think about employee compensation from a bonus standpoint a key part.
We will -- in a normal economy we will generally have to flex up in the second quarter and we would expect to drain inventory through the second half of the year but what I'd like to do is this isn't a public target that we can reduce by some hundreds of basis points our net working capital as a percentage of revenues throughout the cycle.
We'll be happy here and I think our shareholders will be as well.
Okay.
And I'll sneak one more in on SG&amp;A.
Last cycle I think -- last quarter I think you said somewhere in the $90 million to $95 million range but that was on an 8% volume improvement.
You came in at the high-end of that range despite flat volumes.
So how should we look at that number going forward? Are there -- you spoke of many investments they are ongoing.
Are there investments that we should continue to bake in? And how should we talk or think about SG&amp;A leverage in the back half of the year? I'll talk about the investment side and I'll let Brian answer it more specifically.
But we have continued to take capital and look long-term with it.
So we are putting cost in front of earnings and revenues to some extent and continue to do so in India.
So that big factory which will have capacity making more than 100 million is coming up in terms of staffing working with end-users and that should be India everything is complex but we should be making prior in the fourth quarter toward the latter part of that.
So that's a bit of a drag.
We've also worked to build our position in Mexico which again we've got an excellent traction.
Mexico is ahead of India in terms of the project by many quarters.
But I think we're getting great traction there.
We're building in South Africa and that's coming along.
We're building in Peru and that one is that's just finished in just the last couple of months writing orders.
So those are part of the issue.
We were balancing return on capital short-term with return on capital and strategy long-term.
So that's the dance we do.
But Brian do you want to speak specifically to the higher question of the higher end of our guidance around SG&amp;A? Yes.
I'd say for the SG&amp;A for the balance of the year I think modeling or thinking about it is sort at $95 million level plus or minus a couple of million of dollars is fair.
Again there's lots of moving parts as Greg said many operations coming online but that in my estimation will be the right range.
Your next question comes from Brent Thielman of D.
A.
Davidson &amp; Co.
The seasonal decline in Q3 for utility in North America is that both on the high voltage and low voltage side that you're expecting? Could you repeat the question I didn't quite hear it.
Is the seasonal decline in Q3 for utility in North America is that both the high-voltage and low-voltage side? Yes.
We have a transmission cable business that works sort of by projects but the seasonal decline would generally be by the utilities themselves around low voltage and medium voltage because they have their peak construction season is probably April through June.
So I would say that the bulk of it would be -- the decline would be around the utility distribution companies.
Okay got you.
And then the construction segment didn't see the usual increase in revenues relative to Q1 and I think you've typically seen it in the past.
Is that just due to some pull-forward in Q1 or something else? And do you see that sort of returning to normal seasonal patterns? Are your referring to the global construction number? Yes that's right.
What's influencing that again I think is more around remember when we peel the business apart by region? We got a larger mix of construction cables in ROW.
So that's more tied in with some of the other trends that we've talked about with respect to the performance.
A couple of things one is on the transmission question we see the third quarter in the U.S.
and Canada off just from the second quarter but then we think a nice improvement in the fourth quarter.
Again this is a lumpy business and had some of the same issues that Jeff raised earlier about our global transmission business where it's project-driven.
But transmission is somewhat stronger recently than it was certainly in the first half of last year.
With respect to the last call we said that we had seen a slowing in terms of the rate of improvement with certain of our U.S.
and Canadian businesses and that we saw it moving sideways.
And I would say that -- so it's up from where it was but moving sideways say from a strong first quarter and I would say that's continuing where April was in the U.S.
say non-utility non-telephone businesses which are really very seasonal.
If you look at our industrial specialty communications OEM MRO businesses those businesses were quite strong fourth quarter of '10 first 4 months of this year begin to move sideways in the May timeframe that has stopped accelerating and we're continuing to see that trend in July.
So it's not backing down.
It's sort of looking a little bit like June or perhaps slightly better in the U.S.
which I think is somewhat encouraging.
Your next question comes from Shawn Harrison of Longbow Research.
It's Joe Wittine calling in for Shawn.
My first question I want to talk about Iberia.
It seems to be kind of dragging along the bottom.
Can you give volumes metal pounds sold for Iberia? Any numbers on a quarter-over-quarter or year-over-year basis just give us some idea of the magnitude.
We don't want to report that out as these calls are open and competitors can listen.
So we've said that the Iberian market from where it was say 2 to 3 years ago say 3 is the domestic market is off about 50% from a volume standpoint and that we've -- we used our 4 factories -- well 5 factories in Iberia one in Portugal 4 in Spain that about half of the output of those factories is going elsewhere now in the region.
So Spain we've made some very nice progress on working with the workers councils on cost and flexibility continued to look to pull out costs everywhere we can and as you may remember we -- Europe has been built through acquisition over the last 5 years.
And the one company design we have in the European Mediterranean region has really I think helped us get through the downturn in Iberia.
It appears -- Iberia appears to be bouncing along kind of sideways at this point.
We have some competitors that are weakened enough that they're having trouble with the working capital funding.
So it's not worse but it's in a very low level.
Okay.
And then shifting over to South America I think you said you received an authorization to import some copper there.
I guess my question is will you realize a favorable spread on any of those purchases as you convert that in the finished product in the back half of the year? This is Brian.
No this is unlike what would happen in prior years where there was the multi-tiered exchange rate system in the country.
So these purchases that the approvals were done at the current -- at the official rate [indiscernible].
So that's very -- again that's very different than what we were talking about a year ago.
Your next question comes from Rich Wesolowski of Sidoti &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Your 3Q guidance implies volume of about 265 million to 270 million pounds.
Whereas at the peak of the last cycle you posted a high of 293 million.
Is that shortfall a valid? It maybe a rough representation of how far the volume needs to rise before the company regains it's typical measure of value-added pricing? No I would say we have more capacity than we had in the last cycle.
I think you're thinking back to what 2006 or '07 Rich? LLC</strong> Actually '08.
It was after North America has fallen.
The rate cycle -- cyclical we were whining that U.S.
started first but other parts were still peeking.
We've got more capacity now Rich but certainly we could use some increased utilization particularly in the areas that would benefit a lot is that U.S.
housing and construction starts it will help our utility business where there's a lot of open capacity.
The U.S.
telecom cables has a lot of open capacity.
European construction cables particularly have a fair amount of open capacity.
But yes we need construction to begin to come up Rich to pull on as construction will also drive utility spending as well.
The areas that have been strongest with is datacom because I think we've helped ourselves in terms of some of the new innovation and some of the IT spend that we've seen which is more of early cycle and a lot of the cables for oil and gas and industrial had been they're not where they were in say 2006 but they're probably within 15% of that or 10% of that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Then secondly there was an article out this morning in the Financial Times about building opposition to both onshore and offshore wind power in Europe.
Really just reiterated before but it begs the question as to the degree of confidence you have at these high-margin subs that you foresee in '12 and '13 will be released? These things are complex because you've got everything from the funding to how does the power move? It often requires grand transmission where we were closer with these operators these jobs do move around and I would say that  from a macroeconomic standpoint while there's a lot of conviction around it in Germany and the U.K.
there is obviously debate.
Power comes into the north part of Germany and needs to go south where the industrial base is.
And again this is really new business for a lot of folks the wind farms.
So it's a lot of learning.
As we said ourselves we're learning the craft and learning the business as we've entered it.
So I think like any project it has the same things as U.S.
aerial transmission in some ways though this one you get into somewhat more of a state subsidy question how do you get paid? But it's a lot of stuff.
We do have -- part of our mix is oil and gas cables in Europe which are we call umbilicals and specialty cables.
So we have a fair amount of business that's really related to in the sea deepwater drilling and also submarine telecommunications.
So we only have 3 pieces of the submarine business.
But Rich I  -- we're watching things move in and out in terms of funding pushed out contractor not available whether.
It's a constant jiggering as well as obviously the learning curve.
So I can't say with certainty that these things will go when projected and that's similar to a lot of the transmission businesses or turnkey project businesses that we have.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly lastly do the Baltic 2 and the 3 projects announced this quarter represent the lion's share of your submarine high-voltage backlog? Yes.
I would say that we're -- they're not all high-voltage.
Some are medium-voltage array cables.
So 2 of the 3 that we announced are array cable.
So if you think about an offshore wind park there's medium voltage that connects and the park operator can be different than the person bringing the power to the shore so there's an array of medium-voltage cables interconnecting the turbines which has been our primary thrust.
And then we have taken some high-voltage jobs which is actually taking gathering all the power from the park.
Maybe that's 50 or 100 turbines and bringing it to the shore which is high-voltage and our first project in that area was basically Baltic 2.
So there's high-voltage and medium-voltage.
The bulk of our business has historically been medium voltage.
Your next question comes from Tony Kure of KeyBanc.
Just want to get down into that $100 million of inventory drawdown.
I just wanted to clarify.
First of all is it primarily in North America? I think you said it was and then would it be primarily in the utility market in North America? Tony I would ballpark it and say that maybe the sort of magnitude maybe that's in ROW and then the balance then split between North America and Europe.
And I would say it's more broad-based in North America than anything.
Not really projects Tony that are built and will release.
So you build for these big turnkey transmission projects and then they can move a month or sometimes 2.
But we're anticipating that a lot of the stuff that we built over the second quarter goes out in the third quarter.
Okay.
So from under utilization or from a fixed cost utilization perspective and the impact on the margins it should be relatively balanced across all 3 segments is that a correct statement? Yes more or less that's right Tony.
I think we're going to get some of the fringe around the some of the mix but I think it's the right framework to think about.
And then as far as the amount the $100 million of inventory do you think that will be complete in the third quarter or you may have to do some more in the fourth? Tony I would say again we have in ROW we've got a number of these projects which we believe will ship in Q3 and on top of that we have our normal let's call it turning point in the second half where we generally unwind the working capital.
So my expectation would be there'll be -- we'll have some more beyond that but as we see it today I think the majority would be in the third quarter.
Again into the fourth quarter you have the holiday season around the world and so we've got traditional shutdowns that go on for a number of weeks around Europe.
But we typically have -- again absent some of these bigger larger trends we typically have a pretty reduction in Q3.
Okay.
I don't know if you can maybe quantify or give us some sort of magnitude of expenses that maybe associated with these European Commission defense.
I mean is this something that is in your SG&amp;A line in the second quarter and is going to continue here into the third and fourth? Can you just maybe give us some indication of what that might be costing you? It's just -- we hear our large corporations that we have legal as part of our SG&amp;A and it's not - I wouldn't call it out separately Tony as a unique expense.
It pushes up the legal spending but it's not material enough to call out.
Your next question comes from Steve O'Brien of JPMorgan.
Looking out here beyond September quarter I know that you're guiding one quarter at a time but it sounded like there might be some benefits to this December that make it perhaps seasonally stronger than other Septembers maybe some of these countries India Mexico Peru South Africa coming online.
I think Greg you mentioned North America high-voltage should if I heard you right should be stronger in December bouncing back from September.
So I guess just how do you think about seasonality in the very back half of this year? I don't -- there is some debate as to whether there's a double dip kind of with the manufacturing surveys out recently and of course we're watching architectural buildings and other things.
So I think things have slowed but my view on our business in the case is intact.
And yes I mentioned that North American transmission we think could be stronger in the fourth quarter.
We also continue to have strong project activity as well as we're -- some of our investments in South Africa Peru are coming on.
Mexico is coming on.
India I don't think will have a material effect in the fourth quarter.
But I think there'll be a seasonal trend because we do close factories and we always have that December as our end-of-the-year money by the utilities or not.
But I feel good about the business.
I don't think I'm ready to call an unusually stronger fourth quarter but I'm not seeing anything that says that it's unwinding in terms of demand as some economists or analysts fear.
On the infrastructure business in North America I mean I guess North America grew 6%.
I just want to check in and see if that was -- I mean it's pretty close to the overall level of growth guidance you had from metal pounds in Q2.
But was the infrastructure piece in keeping with your expectation going into the quarter? Was there any.
.
.
We have a lot of ways we think about the North -- you're talking about North America right? North America and the infrastructure was there any vaguest sign of the economic weakness? I think there was sort of the industrial cables that we sell.
There was a -- I think distributors were slightly richer in inventory and bled down a little bit.
Again we have the aberration of metals moving all over the lot which we've said can impact behaviors.
But it was weaker.
If you think of our electrical infrastructure business in North America it was weaker in the second quarter than the first quarter but we think that's again it's somewhat smaller-project related but I think we'll pick back up or at least stabilize.
The MRO cables and OEM cables were basically the same March quarter just on unit demand to the June quarter.
And then of course we have -- our data communications business is doing quite well.
So I think there was a little bit of a swoon for electrical infrastructure projects in the second quarter as distributors rebalanced inventory.
But it seems like it's coming back together and is not getting worse.
I think one more just quickly.
I think now there's 2 competitors foreign competitors talking about building or at least one building and maybe one repurposing facilities in North America to address the utility market.
How is General Cable looking at that? And perhaps it's a validation of the market but perhaps it could mean pricing pressure in a year or 2.
Yes there has been a couple of announcements first with an extra-high-voltage line which says they feel good about buried transmission cables.
And I'll talk about our response to all that.
We have Nexans say they also feel good about extra high-voltage and high-voltage and are building we intend to build a facility for that market again.
Those are the -- a small market but one that we think has growth attributes to it.
And then lastly ABB announced an entry again on the high-voltage extra-high-voltage land systems which compete with transmission to some extent but really solved special problems.
So that's a pretty strong view.
We also have LS Cables has announced entry into the area.
So there's 4 of them that have all felt strongly about that.
We have also felt strongly about it over time and what we did is we built our facility in Mexico to be able to serve the market from well really regionally including the U.S.
and Canada.
So a tremendous cost position state-of-the-art facility for products up to high voltage and this extra-high-voltage we would bring it from our Thai facility or from French or Spanish facilities.
So we like the way we're covering the market and we didn't feel in our case that building an asset in the U.S.
was merited.
You always are concerned when people add capacity and why we see a growing market.
That's a fair amount of interest in that high-voltage extra-high-voltage underground niche.
But I think we're going to have a great cost position and will do fine on that.
Your next question comes from Brett Levy from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Hey guys you're generating some free cash flow.
Can you guys talk a little bit about what your plans are around your 2012 and 2013 maturities of your converts and also sort of what your target long-term debt-to-equity or debt -to-EBITDA ratios are.
And I suppose the core areas.
Is there a target credit rating that you'd like to sort of settle in at whether it's high-single B or double B? Yes just to clarify a couple of things.
The 2012 convertible maturities is about $10 million just roughly remainder of what was exchanged back in 2009.
So very manageable.
And we -- and again just if ever we had missed it we refinanced our U.S.
credit facility our ABL [asset backed loan] and we announced that last week.
So that one is we're obviously very encouraged to have that put in place now for another 5 years.
So looking forward the 2013s as you know we believe a very nice piece of our capital structure.
I think we'll continue to -- assuming metals stay where they are or even come down you're right we would expect to generate free cash flow in the second half.
We'll keep our options open.
And I think with respect to the 2013s we've obviously got some time there and we'll continue to look at all the options.
We are comfortable from our leverage or a rating perspective I think historically we've -- our bonds are probably traded a little above where we're actually rated.
I would say we don't have a bright line test of where we want to be.
We've been good stewards I think of our capital over time.
I think when you go back 10 years we've successfully delevered and executed the global strategy.
We obviously increased our leverage in the last few years with the acquisition of PDIC which again was a hugely -- a very large strategic deal for us.
So I would say -- so I can't -- I wouldn't say that we have a target that says the ratio needs to be any fixed number.
But I would say you are right.
Absent sort of run-up a further run-up in metal prices we'll continue -- we would expect to generate cash which will create some flexibility for us.
And you aim to delever a bit? You're back to strategic kind of calls.
Again I have a tendency also to look at the trailing EBITDA to cash interest and then I look at the number of markets and products we're in.
So while we're highly focused as a wire and cable and partly of a turnkey systems business for the very high end of the product line I will get that kind of coverage.
We're always -- we're bit contrary and so we're always -- when people don't like things we get sometimes quite interested because we see things inflow over time.
But broadly and we have got ahead and where we couldn't find in the developing world where we couldn't find a good acquisition we've actually got a brown or green field which obviously take time to make accretive but I think having a mix of that is important as you think about future value.
The core business we really don't need a lot of capital with the completion of the big turnkey capabilities as we're working through that in Northern Europe.
And the U.S.
is in very good shape from a capital standpoint.
I continue to see absolute acquisition less than depreciation spending in 2/3 of our business and above depreciation in the developing part of the world.
But I don't -- I have a tendency to look at my potential free cash flow or EBITDA versus cash interest.
And then we look at what if copper rate were $6 a pound or $2 a pound what does that mean and also what if our volume flexes back? I think it was an earlier question on what would it be if you got back to '08 levels.
And clearly we need to fund $0.20 on the dollar approximately for incremental sales.
So I have to keep that in mind as well.
Your next question comes from Dan Goldberg for RBC.
How much cash are you comfortable withholding on the balance sheet at any point in time? What was kind of your minimum comfort level for that? Yes we look at both the cash and the available facilities sort of on a global basis.
We've got a nice in terms of thinking of the what's called the liquidity in the business.
And in fact back to one of the points that Greg made the changes that we see in volume and the changes in metal prices can have a dramatic impact on our working capital.
And so I would say again I can't give you a bright line test as we've talked about.
We generally have been sort of $1 billion or more in terms of overall availability of which as you know about $400 million to $450 million of that is in cash itself.
I think the other point I would add to the previous question in terms of just our ability to actually delever the majority of our short-term debt that you see in our balance sheet in June is primarily working capital lines in the Rest of World.
So to extent that you see to the extent we go to the second half and unwind the working capital I would expect that there's some opportunity there to reduce those lines.
But again remember as we then build into the first half of 2012 we may draw as we get back into the construction season next year.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Rachel and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Manager of Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; Bob Siverd our General Counsel; Greg Lampert our President and Chief Executive Officer of General Cable North America; and Patrick Gorman our Vice President of General Cable North America Energy Market Strategy and Development.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release from last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our third quarter results.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on the company's fourth quarter 2011 outlook and business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook provided on August 1.
With that I will turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Thank you Len.
Good morning.
Third quarter operating results were broadly in lined with the low end of our seasonally adjusted expectations in North America and ROW while Europe and Mediterranean lagged our expectations as market conditions remained challenging throughout the region.
Overall underlying demand in most markets remained stable and consistent with historical seasonal patterns despite the impact of declining metal prices the decline of which accelerates in the final 15 days of the quarter resulting in lower-than-expected volumes in ROW as some distributors and rod customers deferred purchases.
The combination of a weak Europe and Mediterranean region and volatile metals at the end of the quarter negatively impacted net sales metal pounds sold and seasonal inventory quantity reductions as compared to our earlier communication.
On the next slide we reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.33 which exclude $0.10 per share of non-cash convertible debt interest expense and $0.16 of mark-to-market losses on derivative -- on financial derivatives accounted for as economic hedges.
The company would have reported earnings per share of $0.69 in the third quarter after the impact of $0.23 per share of losses due to currency volatility and $0.13 per share as a result of the cumulative impact of the effective tax rate adjustment which were not in our August 1 outlook.
As you can see the significant volatility experienced during the latter portion of the quarter had a pronounced impact on our results as we recorded other expense of $31.5 million: $12.9 million relate to mark-to-market losses on economic hedges and $18.6 million related to foreign currency transaction losses.
The impact of this currency and commodity volatility in part was a revision to our full year effective tax rate due to the revised full year earnings mix which resulted in a cumulative year-to-date tax expense adjustment in the third quarter.
For the fiscal month just ended last Friday October 28 approximately $12 million of the $31.5 million of other expense has been recovered due to movements in metals and currencies since the end of the third quarter.
Turning to Slide #7.
We charted the movement of copper and aluminum to illustrate the volatility experienced during the quarter.
Copper prices declined sharply at the end of the third quarter to $3.15 per pound a net drop of 30% from the quarterly high of $4.47 per pound established in July and a 20% decline over the final 15 days of the quarter.
As you can see aluminum prices followed a very similar trend which is not inconsequential particularly from a top line perspective as a mix of aluminum-based product shipments increases as our aerial transmission businesses in Brazil and North America continue to grow.
Consistent with what we said in the past we believe this extreme volatility affect the buying behavior of some distributors in the third quarter.
In addition certain rod mill customers in ROW deferred purchases in the final days of the quarter waiting for copper to settle.
As of this fiscal month ended October 28 copper prices closed at $3.70 a pound which represents an increase of 17% from the end of the third quarter.
On the next slide currency volatility.
As you know the U.S.
dollar strengthened against most major currencies throughout the third quarter.
On Slide 8 we have charted the movements of the U.S.
dollar relative to the Mexican peso the Brazilian real and the euro to illustrate the rapid strengthening of the U.S.
dollar particularly at the end of the quarter.
We recorded $18.6 million of foreign currency transaction losses during the quarter of which about 2/3 relates to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against the peso and real.
The balance of the foreign currency transaction losses was spread among a number of other currency movements not all of them relative to the U.S.
dollar of course and none as individually significant to us as the movement of the U.S.
dollar against the peso or the real.
For example we incurred losses due to the movement of the euro relative to the South African rand during the third quarter among others.
Historically these movements have trended in a way that when coupled with our strategies to create natural hedges have offset majority of the exposures.
However given the complexities of our business it is not possible to completely eliminate the exposure.
And over the last few years we have reported other income expense each quarter in the range of plus or minus $5 million excluding the impact of Venezuela which is a special situation.
Since the financial crisis of 2008 our cumulative net benefit on foreign currency movements beginning with the fourth quarter of 2009 through the second quarter of 2011 has been about $14 million excluding Venezuela.
We believe over time our natural hedging strategies when supplemented with cost-effective financial instrument hedging strategies will properly mitigate foreign currency exposures.
Our financial derivative currency hedging programs in place offset about $8 million of additional currency losses during the third quarter.
On Slide #9 we provided comments explaining our third quarter results compared to the second quarter with net sales for the second quarter presented on the metals adjusted basis.
The top line was slightly better on a sequential basis principally due to the increase in volume experienced during the quarter as a result of 15% volume growth in ROW which more than offset typical seasonal declines in North America and ongoing weakness in Europe and Mediterranean.
Gross profit and operating income in the third quarter reflect seasonally lower results in North America following a stronger second quarter in our Electric Utility and Telecommunications businesses the impact of a planned seasonal reduction of inventory quantities globally and ongoing weakness in Iberia coupled with the summer holiday schedule in Europe.
Regarding the effective tax rate the high percentage in the third quarter is an anomaly principally due to the relatively lower pretax GAAP income of $8.7 million.
This effective tax rate reflects the impact of the cumulative tax expense adjustment reported in the third quarter as our full year effective tax rate was increased due to the revised full year earnings mix.
Our full year effective tax rate is expected to be in the range of 35%.
On Slide 10 we have summarized the components to reconcile Q2 adjusted EPS of $0.77 per share to Q3 adjusted EPS of $0.33.
As we've discussed the extreme currency and commodity volatility experienced during the quarter had a pronounced impact on our results which when combined represented increased expense versus the second quarter of $0.34 per share.
While lower operating income represents approximately $0.20 per share sequentially this was generally consistent with seasonally adjusted expectations with the exception of Europe where conditions continue to be difficult particularly in Iberia.
On the next 3 slides -- on the next 3 pages Slides 11 12 and 13 we provide segment information for your reference.
First in ROW we were pleased to see a broad-based increase in volume as the uneven order patterns experienced in the second quarter improved.
Sources of strength in the third quarter include aerial transmission projects in Brazil electrical infrastructure spending in Brazil and Venezuela construction and mining activities in Chile and industrial projects in Thailand.
Conversely in Mozambique and Chile we experienced at the end of the quarter rod shipment delays due to the rapid fall in copper prices.
Sequentially third quarter operating income of $29.8 million reflects the ongoing strength of our businesses in Latin America led by strong performances in Brazil and Venezuela coupled with the impact of planned seasonal reductions of inventory.
In North America sequentially lower volume was principally driven by normal seasonal declines for the company's Electric Utility and Telecommunications products.
Demand remains stable for many of the company's electrical infrastructure products including cable shoot [ph] in natural resource extraction as well as networking and original equipment manufacturing applications.
Transmission project activity remains a source of positive momentum.
As you know aerial transmission has been volatile over time as we shipped record high volumes in the second half of 2010 following record low volumes in the first half of 2010.
Sequentially third quarter operating income of $27.7 million reflects the seasonally lower results of the company's Electric Utility and Telecommunication businesses following a strong result in the second quarter as well as the impact of a planned seasonal reduction of inventory quantities.
In Europe and Mediterranean project-related activities in our submarine power and terrestrial high-voltage and extra-high-voltage businesses were more than offset by the broader market weaknesses particularly in the Mediterranean region.
The company's backlog continued to build during the quarter for submarine and land-based high-voltage extra-high-voltage cable projects.
We estimate this backlog for project deliveries through 2014 to be approximately $600 million.
Sequentially third quarter operating income of $5.9 million reflects the ongoing weakness throughout the region coupled with the summer holiday schedule as well as the impact of a planned seasonal reduction of inventory quantities.
Finally moving to Slide 14 the July refinancing of our senior secured credit facility in the U.S.
and Canada which extends its maturity out to 2016 further enhances our capital structure and financial flexibility to fund our working capital requirements to capitalize on global opportunities.
In addition we have the financial flexibility to repurchase up to $125 million of General Cable stock as recently authorized by the Board of Directors.
At the end of the third quarter the company had approximately $1.2 billion of excess liquidity across the globe.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg for a recap of our Q4 expectations and business trends which begins on Slide 16.
Greg? Good morning.
Overall we continue to perform well in a very challenging environment.
We expect fourth quarter global volumes to remain consistent with third quarter levels.
Revenues of $1.4 billion to $1.45 billion as compared to Quarter 3 principally reflects the impact of lower metal prices and a greater mix of aluminum products.
With further planned inventory reductions and the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower current price environment we expect resulting operating income earning -- resulting operating earnings in the range of $38 million to $50 million.
We anticipate ending 2011 with solid growth of 9% in volume and an increase of 14% to 20% in operating earnings.
For 2011 revenue should be in the range of $5.9 billion to $5.95 billion with volume just over 1 billion metal pounds sold and operating earnings in the range of $254 million to $266 million.
While volatile and uncertain at times the overall global business remains on a positive trajectory.
Before we get to the Q&amp;A I thought we'd spend some time talking about how I currently see our global business environment.
In Europe and the Mediterranean market conditions for traditional construction and industrial cable products remain depressed.
Our focus on submarine and terrestrial high- and extra-high-voltage transmission interconnection projects over the long term should continue to offset the impact of the broader market weakness.
We also remain pleased about the progress we are making with our global regional model driving an improved cost position.
We expect North America will continue to benefit from stable demand for products tied to information technology natural resource extraction and electrical infrastructure.
Momentum continues in the aerial transmission market as demand for aluminum products used to upgrade grid and tie in new sources of renewable generation remain strong.
We also continue to see a positive outlook for our core specialty products given -- driven by sustained investment in the natural gas oil and mining markets.
Our Data Communications segment remain strong as we leverage commercialization of our 17 free line for certain of our data communication in fiber optic cables.
Finally industrial demand remains on track as end customer facility and project work has not shown signs of falling back.
In ROW our strategy of introducing a broader range into developing markets continues to translate to new opportunities.
In Brazil we are benefiting from strong aerial transmission demand and our focus on introducing products to address the robust construction communication and industrial markets is paying off.
In Brazil's -- as Brazil's industrialization continues and construction activity for the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympic Games in 2016 accelerates we expect to see continued growth opportunities.
In addition our strengthened market position and investments in Peru Australia South Africa and Mexico will allow us to capture opportunities for mining construction and electrical infrastructure projects.
Finally we're also pleased to report that our facility in India remains on schedule for year-end commissioning.
We expect to continue to grow our business over time as we further broaden our product portfolio through the introduction of industrial specialty and data communication products into developing markets and as recent investments made by the company continue to come online.
With the authorization by the Board of Directors to purchase up to 125 million of General Cable common stock and the overall strength of our balance sheet we now have another option for deploying the capital at our disposal in addition to capturing the numerous global opportunities we see.
We are encouraged by the momentum in our global business but are prudently monitoring mixed global economic indicators weak levels of construction spending volatile raw materials and lingering geo-political and sovereign debt concerns as an uneven global economy oscillates.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Steve O'Brien with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the detail in your commentary Greg and Brian but can you help me understand maybe get a little more granular on the sort of the step-down in operating income between Q3 and Q4? I mean you cited some factors like the mix of aluminum transmission cable and the inventory drawdown and the selling at higher cost inventory.
If you can help me understand if any of those are having a disproportionate effect? And then presumably the inventory drawdown and the -- will reverse in calendar 2012.
When do you expect if metals are stable the higher cost inventory would be worked through? Steve it's Brian.
When we look at the Q4 guidance you're right when you look at -- we've guided towards a sequentially flat volumes Q3 to Q4 which reflects our expectation that we'll have good shipments or strong shipments of transmission cables in Brazil for example and in North America which will offset some of the normal seasonality there.
And then in Europe and Mediterranean as we've mentioned our expectation is that we will be increasing our activities on the submarine cable side.
And then from an inventory sort of quantity reduction perspective and you can see in our slide presentation in the third quarter we took out about $70 million from a quantity perspective and we're estimating in Q4 to take out about $40 million to $50 million.
So putting -- pooling all of that together the biggest -- the largest impact to the sequential move from Q3 to Q4 in terms of the earnings would be into the selling the higher average cost inventory into what we call a lower sort of current environment.
Again that's the timing of -- and I said that I guess the single large impact to Q4 is we think about 2012 I would say it's really too early for us to have a view on any potential impact there.
You can see -- we talked about a lot of this -- the volatile metals the volatile currencies had obviously a meaningful impact on our reported numbers in terms of say the other expense in the quarter.
But obviously it also impacted some of the -- we believe some of the buying patterns we're having near the end of the quarter in ROW.
So a lot -- and having instead and in the last 2 days you can see again the currency particularly today and in this morning's headlines you can see the commodities and the currencies returning to the volatility that we saw in late September.
Steve the copper was in the $4-plus range for most of 2011; that's $4 a pound and greater.
And the average for October was $3.35 a pound; that's COMEX.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean is it...? I mean the inventory in the $4-plus range some of it is formulated pass-through some of it is not and -- so we're selling inventory built in the $4-plus range into a market that on average in October was $3.35 a pound.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Greg and Brian I mean is it fair to say you're turning the inventory around 4x and that in the quarter presuming the metals prices are stable you have worked through this or is there more nuance than that? I think Steve it's a little more nuance in that in the sense that the tail on a way there was calculation again depending upon the level of purchases et cetera can -- tends to run a little bit longer than inventory turn.
But again when you -- taking a step back and you -- we're again focused on what we've described as that 50% of the business where as we said historically and consistently over time is for lack of a better word or term priced every day.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just a real quick one here.
On the tax rate where does that go going forward? It looks like the fourth quarter rate will be a little bit higher than what we talked about kind of being the long-term rate in the past.
I mean any viewpoint yet in terms of where that goes longer term? Longer -- not with a high degree of precision I would say we -- given some of the discrete items we always had a viewpoint that -- or consistently had a viewpoint this year that the third quarter would be a lower rate and the fourth quarter would be -- would end up being somewhat higher rate.
And you can see part of the reason for the increase to the full year tax rate is that our earnings mix is shifting towards higher rate jurisdictions.
So I guess it's a little early for '12 and '13 to say but I guess maybe we've historically given the range of 30% to 33%.
I guess we're doing our plans for next year.
So right now I'd say it's early but I guess it's sort of a maybe think about is in terms of the high end of that range.
Your next question comes from Brett Levy with Jefferies &amp; Company.
As you look at some of your weaker areas have you started to consider cost-cutting measures? And then I have a follow-up with respect to sort of capital structure.
Yes.
We have -- throughout our time on the lean manufacturing journey we're always trying to remove envelopes in half.
We have taken through the P&amp;L and then called out a large termination in Europe when we took a number of people out particularly in Spain but we continue and will in the fourth quarter continue to pare down our workforce.
In Europe we are also concentrating on selling more products throughout the region.
That -- Europe is the weakest and we've been on a-couple-of-year journey of pulling headcount out.
These factories are fairly purpose built and it's not as simple as -- we've said in the past each envelope may have $4 million or $5 million of fixed costs maybe $6 million or $7 million depending on the size of it but it's -- they're built around product lines and not interchangeable.
So it's -- the footprint and we'll always look at it is something that we are pretty well committed to filling in the region in Europe.
But we do have a lot of folks out and continue to look at design -- cost design and throughput scrap waste all the things that we've traditionally done for the last 10 years.
We've also pulled out a lot of costs in the developing regions when -- as these markets slow the rates of growth et cetera again this is part of the journey but we did have a 30% to 40% decline in volume from the 2006 high point to the 2009 low point.
But we don't have a -- we have 48 factories around the world and the product is heavy.
It trades regionally and the factories are fairly purpose built.
But if we come up with a way of getting more with less that's what winning is about so we'll keep on the lookout for that.
Do you have a headcount reduction number since the decline? I think it's a couple of thousand but I don't have it in front of me.
Got it.
And then in terms of the uses of your ABL cash et cetera would you or have you considered taking out some of the shorter maturity converts in the open market or even addressing the senior notes in the open market? I would say as you've seen in the release -- well let me start I guess with the 2013 converts as you know the 7/8 of 1% cash interest rate.
We've got a couple of years to maturity of those notes.
And we -- as we've announced we're -- we've implemented in terms of our capital alternatives.
The board has authorized $125 million stock buyback program.
So I guess from an order of priority we would continue to -- our objective would be to maintain a bit the liquidity in the business.
As you know we can get moved around hard by working capital swings.
We -- as we said in the prepared remarks we continue to see both M&amp;A and organic growth opportunities in the business so we have to balance that as well.
And then of course as I've just mentioned the repurchase of shares would also be an alternative.
So the repurchase of debt would be somewhere further down the list in terms of things that we might consider.
Your next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
A few clarifications first before question.
What is the spot price of -- or what is excuse me the price of copper and aluminum you're assuming within the guidance for the fourth quarter? $3.35 COMEX on copper and on aluminum was $1 what? About $1.10.
Okay.
And then the other clarification was I believe Brian you mentioned you've already covered some of the other income headwinds from the third calendar quarter quarter to date here in the fourth quarter.
Is that going to be run through the P&amp;L on a non-GAAP basis so we should include that in our earnings estimates for the fourth calendar quarter? I guess what are you assuming in terms of a total recovery? Yes we -- well as you know Shawn when -- part of the reason that we have as you can see in our remarks changed the way we've given it at the guidance and given at the operating income level is because of the variability and the difficulty to predict the impact.
So what we're really seeing is of the $31.5 million that was in Q3 about $12 million just in terms of market movements came back through the end of last Friday.
So in terms of Europe -- and again as you know today and yesterday the markets have been -- continue to be volatile.
So I guess in terms of your modeling -- there are a lot -- I guess that's -- I offer that as -- you can see why it's difficult to give a guidance for these numbers.
So where that goes for the full quarter we'll have to see.
Obviously as we mentioned besides just our -- the -- managing the volatility of the market and looking for our natural hedges we also have financial instrument hedges in place as well.
That's fair.
And I guess the question I was hoping to ask was just more on the undersea business.
You have a very large backlog right now.
I think the comment was you would start to see some revenue contribution during the fourth calendar quarter.
Maybe if you could describe that revenue contribution as well as how that ramps into 2012 as well kind of what should be a typical quarterly revenue run rate that we can model? We entered the submarine power cable business fairly recently.
And it's the kind of thing where -- that probably that submarine power cable facility can make $100 million to $150 million a year of product and without putting more investment in there.
So again it's not because of the percentage of completion accounting.
It's not perfectly linear.
But that's kind of the number on the submarine in terms of capability.
That's putting aside submarine fiber optics and communications products but that's really the deepwater oil and gas plus the power side of things.
And in the terrestrial business a couple hundred million but I don't know that I break that out.
Okay.
I guess the clarification on that then is the $600 million backlog mainly submarine or is that -- what is the mix? It's more submarine than terrestrial probably estimating maybe 2/3 of it submarine and is multiyear.
Your next question comes from Rich Wesolowski with Sidoti and Company.
LLC</strong> Regarding the mark-to-market derivatives that were switched to economic hedges are the contracts or underlying exposures being hedged scheduled to be worked off or otherwise recognized within the next quarter or 2 or will you potentially face this kind of at least GAAP earnings volatility indefinitely? Yes Richard those are a little bit of both.
In other words these are typically tied to the large projects.
And so -- and again this goes back to the previous question around the currency is that because we can -- which is why we've gone from a guidance perspective to an operating income basis.
As we look forward and our project business grows we -- that the -- basically like we de-designate these hedges because we -- because the timing is not so much delays as much as the projects moving around and our difficulty then in achieving the precision of the delivery forecasts causes us to de-designate these hedges which gives us this mark-to-market impact.
So for example the -- we talked about -- of the $31 million $12.9 million of it was related to mark-to-markets and about 1/2 of that $12 million recovery that I mentioned in October was on the mark-to-market side.
So again it's something that I will have to live with in volatile quarters.
But you can see just in terms of what we incurred in Q3 and what came back in October how this can get moved around.
LLC</strong> Right.
But so long as the project business continues to grow the potential for that exists? That's correct.
That's correct.
And they are -- and it relates to these large projects that go out 6 months a year 18 months there.
They've got a long life to them.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then secondly 2 of your bellwether competitors have chosen to take hefty charges in anticipation of the European Commission fund related to the undersea and the on-sore transmission market.
Would you discuss why a similar move is inappropriate for BGC? Sure.
We entered the submarine cable business in the last 2 years.
This has been principally a submarine investigation but expanded into high-voltage extra-high-voltage so we're a peripheral player in the case.
We're in a really quite a different position than some of the bellwether companies that you described.
We filed our response to the EU statement of objections on October 28 and we continue to defend against all these claims.
We also think and believe we have substantial legal defenses on these claims.
So the next part is to go talk with the EU sometime next year.
Your next question comes from Jeff Beach with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg and Brian 2 questions.
The first one is on the third quarter volume.
It looks like the volume was about 10 million pounds under your -- the midpoint of your guidance for the quarter.
And I heard all your comments about a lot of weakness in Rest of World but when I look at the volume that you reported it looks like the big weakness was in North America.
Could you go a little bit more into the shortfall against your expectations? And again it looks like an awfully steep drop sequentially in North America.
And I just wondered if there are some delayed shipments of -- delayed purchases by distributors in North America maybe as much as in Rest of World? North America Jeff has been quite in line.
And again we mentioned that it was accelerating year-over-year at a high rate through early part of the second quarter and then began to roll over sideways.
We saw broadly very typical volume for the third quarter which broadly would be less than the second quarter and then some of our earlier cycle business that actually stayed kind of at second quarter levels the issue was really around timing and release of projects in Electric Utility in communications side and that can be quite seasonal because of the second quarter peak there.
But we continue -- again our Electric Utility business is a long way from what it once was.
But we did have seen the distribution part of the business actually increase slightly year-over-year which is somewhat encouraging; again down 30% from where it once was.
Transmission can move things around.
Wind farm projects can move things around.
So I felt it was just marginally below where we thought it might but it's -- it was almost de minimis and almost entirely related to the Electric Utility and slightly to the telephone cable business.
The industrial specialty data comm harness business was right where we thought it might be and frankly encouraging.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if most of that 10 million pounds shortfall was in Rest of World the volume would've been closer to 120 million pounds in the quarter rather than the 110 million which is a record but it could've been much stronger? Rest of World the ROW volume -- again we're talking about an anomaly where the third quarter is stronger than the second quarter in ROW and was the strongest in many quarters and a very strong year-over-year comp but yes I would say Jeff 7 million 8 million pounds got pushed around in ROW at the last week or 2.
Again we're in the rod business and that's pure metal that we formed and should fall in an OEM basis.
So there was a bit of that and stuff is always happening in the hedges but my broad takeaway is that volumes aren't bad.
They as a company in the U.S.
which is sort of the bellwether and Europe is -- we're beginning to see in the fourth quarter that the continued weakness in Europe in the construction segments is beginning to be offset -- we're more than offset by the turnkey businesses as it becomes -- the investments we made are coming online beginning to show some income.
And ROW frankly had a very good quarter.
And then I look at -- where -- what is the ROW? So I begin to look into places like where we've been doing business for a long time say Central America or Philippines or Thailand that we haven't entered with a new asset or where we don't have this large transmission project in -- that we have in Brazil.
And it's relatively stable.
Again the world is mushing sideways but we've helped ourselves in the ROW area.
But yes Jeff we were off in ROW from where we expected.
We were just a snitch of week in North America principally tied to Electrical Utility.
And Europe was weaker than we thought around the construction side.
But of the 3 the U.S.
was closest to what we had anticipated when we talked to you on August 1 with our last press release.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the second question is just looking at Rest of World and the drivers in 2011 you've talked about them.
Is there any changes in the Rest of World drivers and markets going into 2012 and specifically your siding construction is construction generally picking up in those markets? Jeff I would say that ROW broadly as we all know is a not unique economic phenomenon from the rest of the world.
We -- it is a bit better.
It fell less and has recovered somewhat but it's -- I would say I'm slightly encouraged but I'm not seeing a big turn back up in ROW.
We can get into separate discussions around Chile mining or Brazil or how's time goal on oil and gas but broadly ROW is okay and is -- remains choppy.
The currencies are all over the lot.
But it's -- I'm not seeing things fall out of bed at any level but we are operating at relatively weak levels the weakest being clearly Europe -- Southern Europe.
And probably the area of strength has continued to be the U.S.
and then selected ROW markets.
We're watching China.
We have 2 equity investments in there and we have a business that's starting up in India and a business that has achieved a fairly substantial position in Mexico which has been a couple-year startup.
So we've -- as well as we've entered in a stronger way South Africa and Peru.
But net ROW ROW seems okay and okay in the same way we described the U.S.
which is relatively stable but not in an accelerative state other than what we can do to help ourselves.
Your next question comes from Anthony Kure with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to drill down a little bit more into the de-stocking into the fourth quarter.
Obviously you're going to be taking inventories down a little bit more as we move to the fourth quarter.
But my question is is this what you would consider a normal de-stocking for a typical fourth quarter in anticipation of a normal first quarter? Or is the first quarter maybe is what's implied by the de-stocking in the fourth quarter a little bit of weaker volume expectation for the first quarter '12 ? This is a normal de-stocking.
And as you know we are generally in an inventory build position going into sort of the peak selling months of May and June historically.
We've had some anomalies over time but generally those are the strongest.
And then as you begin to bring in the Christmas vacation period end of the year's period and closing plans we generally have seen our first and second quarters as statistically weaker than our second and third.
So our first and fourth are normally the weakest and we normally push cash out and reduce inventory right through the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay thank you.
And then as far as...? In timing we're starting up hard and fast and we could see it we might be thinking differently about that.
So if we were back to 2005 '06 '07 there could be anomalies to this pattern.
But right now we're sort of seeing frankly more the same from a demand side which isn't all that bad given the state of the world of uncertainty.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as far as the profit guidance for the fourth quarter you mentioned some of the factors but I didn't hear mix as one of them.
Would mix be a positive or negative or just sort of sideways from impact on your operating profit? We always think about the world on return on investment so we do sell things like rod or sell transmission cable because it could be nicely accretive on return on investment.
Because transmission is so heavy this is aerial transmission it can sometimes push the numbers around.
So we talk often by pushing that out and thinking about the businesses that are -- have much less metal content.
But it's not mix; it's basically -- in the fourth quarter we will as a company sell something like more than 250 million pounds of metal.
Copper will be in the 150 million pound range and we've got to go sell it in a market that is okay.
But the customers will be looking in some channels at current replacement costs and spot market pricing.
And as I said copper was hanging well over $4 for a while.
So our biggest issue as Brian says is the movement which is very unusual so far down so quickly rather than gradually up or down and that presents unique problems.
But it's not a mix issue.
It's really selling copper that -- the part of the copper business that isn't covered with formulaic escalators and de-escalators into a market that today is at $3.40 a pound and was in July the COMEX was $4.47.
Again we try to be sticky and we look at market pricing and at some markets you see more discipline than others around that.
But it is -- this kind of movement gets everybody looking at pricing because it's a big movement in a short period of time.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just last question.
I think you have a couple of facilities in Thailand.
Any issues there with the flooding? Yes we've been -- it's a great question.
We've been very -- staying very close to that.
And as you can see from the headlines about 1/3 of the country is covered.
We -- and the government wish -- the government sent everybody home for a number of days.
We have sandbagged the facilities and so far we think we may have passed the tidal crest and we are dry though all around us is wet.
So we'll go through -- in Thailand we'll have both strong demand coming as people dry out and rebuild their network whether it's an industrial park or utility and you can have failures when stuff has been -- cable has been drenched.
But we are operating.
Our customers in many parts are underwater.
Eventually they'll dry out and we'll need cable.
But Thailand on the margin is a question mark in terms of the performance of that unit but I would say we've been blessed by having 2 dry facilities.
Your next question comes from Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jack Stimac filling in for Matt today.
Most of my questions have been asked at this point but I guess as a follow-up to that -- sort of looking at the Q4 guidance for the volume you had talked about some of the orders had been pushed back and I guess this is kind of a 2-part question: One the volume guides being up a percent seems a little stronger than a normal seasonality.
But how much of that is due to the orders that were pushed back in Q3 actually being executed in Q4? And then just kind of a follow-up if it occur a price environment give the copper close to the $3.50 and had gotten down to around $3 per pound with everything that's going on in Europe [indiscernible] today are we in an environment where people are expecting it to go lower and are still holding out on orders? Or is this kind of a pricing environment that encourages orders to just get there at market prices? Again a lot of our customers just have daily flow business to attend to.
Big orders can be hardly contested.
But we did have a pickup back off the floor last week from copper moving back to a $3.60 level.
As you know there's an unrest in the big free port McMoran mine which is 2% or 3% of the world's supply in Indonesia as well as there's a strike in Peru.
Then -- and then the Chinese allegedly were back in.
The copper thing is hard to call; copper has been off now.
It will be off $0.20 in the last 2 days from where it was Friday.
The -- again not every distributor -- a lot of them just want to turn the inventory but I'd like some stability sure.
And I think if we -- where we do see pauses is if it starts running down people sort of wait to see where it's going to bottom.
And if it starts running up you begin to have folks come off the sidelines and want to cover bids but we -- I guess at this point is we expect more volatility.
We've thought about the quarter in terms of where copper was on average because we build it on average in October which was $3.35 a pound.
And to answer your first question yes generally you'd expect the fourth quarter historically to be off from the quarter by 4% 5% 6% on a unit basis.
We're actually slightly up.
I would say that's pretty good activity in ROW surprising hanging in North America and most business areas.
The beginning of the submarine shipments and some pushover from stuff that was supposed to go the last week of September is showing up in October which is probably 5 million 6 million 7 million pounds.
So net-net fourth quarter is slightly stronger even when you adjust for the slightly below our forecast but nevertheless a strong third quarter some of that pushed over.
But on balance it feels okay where I sit today.
In October in North America as I hoped [ph] that the incoming order rates on our main bellwether businesses this is putting aside utility for a minute the flow kinds of business that is tied to industrial activity and economic activity were surprisingly strong; meaning they looked a lot like the September revenues incoming order rates.
And that's probably pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as far as the inventory reductions I know you guys had talked about this in the last couple of quarters about bringing it down to $100 million plus.
With -- assuming that normal seasonality plays out over the course of 2012 will inventory kind of be at your target levels after Q4 or will there be further potential inventory reductions ahead? We always hope we can run this with 1 day of inventory.
I don't know that we'll get there but part of winning is to keep getting better and how do you know what you know and how quickly can you change over your production.
But we should have -- again if the world stays flat to slightly up next year we'll presumably have a normal seasonal pattern and that would be -- we would be building inventory probably but not for sure the first half of next year with some reduction.
But again if we find chances to meet our customers' needs to meet all the demand and do with half of the working capital or inventory we're going to do it because as I said we're return-on-capital people so we're constantly trying to get better with what we've got.
And obviously with metal volatility you'd like to be selling today what you made yesterday which would be our goal.
It's probably an impossible goal but nevertheless where you'd like to be.
The next question comes from Gary Farber with CL King.
Inc.</strong> Can you just address what your assumption is for the competitive environment as you sort of go through this process of taking your inventory down in the fourth quarter and your inventory turns come through what you think your competitors will be doing? We're -- we compete all over the world.
There is excess supply in the -- in most markets.
I would guess our competitors who have normal seasonality would be pulling inventory down as we would because -- unless they are seeing something very different than we're seeing which I'd be surprised since we're in so many places.
We do have -- with the industry overall except for China down materially from its '07 '06 high point there is excess capacity in these parts of the world.
They have more excess capacity in the level of competition and varies in terms of how much excess capacity and the different strategies in place.
So broadly I would expect seasonally them to be pulling the inventory down unless they're in the Southern Hemisphere in which case they would be moving toward their peak construction season.
Your next question comes from Jeff Matthews with RAM Partners.
L.P.</strong> I just wondered if you could talk a little bit more about Europe and Iberia and what your outlook there might be over the next year or 2 versus what you might have been thinking a year or 2 ago when it looked like there might be a more normal recovery? Yes I don't -- that's a great question.
What we have when you look at the overhang in Spain and the level of decline the overhang of housing and non-resi stuff I don't think we have looked at this and went hard after our costs in Spain harder than we would have if we anticipated a normal recovery.
We built Europe through acquisition and of course some of those European businesses like Silec which we entered into the high -- extra-high-voltage business very late 2005 and then got into the submarine cable business a couple of years ago were really global businesses.
But I -- Europe is -- we're not expecting Spain to materially change nor Portugal from where it currently is in terms of housing and non-resi construction.
What we are doing -- again these facilities our Spanish facilities are 50 miles from France.
I look at them as European facilities.
So more than 1/2 of the capacity that were -- that we have in Iberia is actually being sold through the Gulf through North Africa and through Europe so it's really part of our European footprint.
But I don't believe we're going to have a normal recovery in Iberia.
We're not planning on one.
And if we get one it would be a benefit.
What I'm trying to do through our sort of one-company organization in Europe is be sure that we're seeing every opportunity within 1 500 miles 2 000 miles of those facilities.
And again we have a big asset in France and then a submarine cable business in Germany.
We are significantly smaller in Europe than some of our competitors but strong and I think we'll have an important position in Central and Western Europe as well as around the Mediterranean region.
If I thought we could -- if I thought it was as easy as taking a facility down in Iberia we would look at that but these are fairly purpose-built facilities around certain product types and broadly without lots of -- without using lots of capital are not interchangeable.
But they're lean and getting leaner and Europe continues to benefit from the best practices we have as a company in purchasing safety manufacturing and on and on.
So I think our bigger story in Europe will be really the -- I hope the ongoing power of some of our turnkey and specialty products as well as selling more industrial and construction products to a broader range of customers in the market.
L.P.</strong> Got it.
And can I also follow-up Greg and ask you about the 800 pound gorilla in the copper rooms in China and there's a lot of speculation about where they're at as far as the construction bubble and whether the bubble is bursting? Do you have any sense of what is really going on in terms of underlying demand out of China? We -- other than what you read and I read the same we do about 150 million a year there.
We think we see copper being used in some ways as collateral.
Their credit markets are being squeezed as an attempt to slow down the economy.
They're squeezing nonstrategic industries as well.
Our volumes are okay.
Again we're not big enough to -- we're only in a facility in the North in the Yantai area the peninsula area and then down in the Hong Kong area but I do think about and worry about China and their ability to manage a smooth landing there.
And they are as you point out about 38% of the copper market but they are often all in or all out.
And getting into their consumption which actually has declined this year I think of copper -- but again it's part of the shadow banking system as well.
So a complex question and one that is equally on my mind as Europe is as I think about macro drivers of the world economy and potentially copper in our business.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn it over to General Cable for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
The replay of this conference call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tracy and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Manager Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release from last night.
For those of you who have not it's available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our fourth quarter and 2011 full year results.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on the company's first quarter 2011 outlook and business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously-communicated outlook provided on November 1.
With that I will turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Thank you Len.
Good morning.
Fourth quarter operating results were above our expectations in North America as product pricing held up better than anticipated in many of our businesses despite the significant decrease in copper prices experienced near the end of the third quarter.
In Rest of World excluding the impact of the severe it flooding in Thailand which reduced the operating income by $6.5 million our operating results were generally in line with expectation.
In Europe however the further weakening of Iberian end markets and Spain severance-related costs of $3 million more than offset strong submarine and land-based high-voltage and extra-high voltage project-related production activities during the quarter.
Overall underlying demand in most markets remained stable and consistent with historical seasonal demand patterns.
The combination of further weakening of Iberian end markets and severe flooding in Thailand negatively impacted our unit volume resulting in lower-than-expected net sales operating income and seasonal inventory quantity reductions as compared to our earlier communication.
Putting aside our forward purchase of metals in Algeria and Venezuela of approximately $35 million our inventory quantity levels were relatively flat from Q3 to Q4.
The timing of raw material inventory purchases in these markets is heavily influenced by currency and metals availability.
As a result from time to time we make sizable forward purchases of raw material inventory when we believe the circumstances warrant such action as was the case in the fourth quarter.
Heading into the fourth quarter.
We estimated the impact of selling substantially higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment at about $15 million of operating income impact.
We estimate the actual impact was closer to $20 million principally in Iberia as a result of the very weak economic environment.
On Slide #6 we have provided comments explaining our fourth quarter results compared to the third quarter with net sales for Q3 presented on a metals adjusted basis.
The top line was lower principally due to the sequential increase in unit volume of 4% experienced during the quarter.
Gross profit and operating income in the fourth quarter reflects the impact of selling substantially higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment.
Further weakening of Iberian end markets Spain severance charges of $3 million and the impact of severe flooding in Thailand which reduced operating income by $6.5 million.
Other expense for the fourth quarter of $3.3 million reflects the net impact of $5.1 million of transactional currency gains which were more than offset by a $8.4 million of accounting losses on economic hedges which are used to manage currency and commodity risk on our project businesses globally.
This level of transactional currency gains is more consistent with historical norms given the numerous currencies in which we transact business around the world.
The third quarter transactional currency losses were higher than normal due principally to the rapid and significant weakening of the Brazilian real and Mexican peso near the end of Q3.
On the next slide we charted the movement of copper and aluminum to demonstrate the significant volatility experienced over the previous 2 quarters.
Copper prices declined sharply at the end of the third quarter to $3.15 per pound before bottoming at $3.05 per pound early in the fourth quarter.
After this step-down copper prices is averaged $3.41 in the fourth quarter as compared to $4.07 in the third quarter.
As you can see aluminum prices followed the downward trend as well which is not inconsequential particularly from a top line perspective as the mix of aluminum-based products shipments increased as a result of growth in our aerial transmission businesses in North America and Brazil.
As a result of this growth in aerial transmission we saw our historical mix of metal pounds sold shift from about 1/3 aluminum to around 40% aluminum over the second half of 2011.
This range of about 1/3 to 40% is indicative of what we expect going forward given the volatility inherent in our metal-intensive project-oriented aerial transmission business.
As we mentioned in our November communication this downward movement in metal prices presented a significant headwind in the fourth quarter as we sold higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment.
On the next 3 pages Slides 8 9 and 10 we have provided segment information for your reference.
First in ROW putting aside our business in Thailand we continued to experience broad-based stability in terms of demand across many of our businesses.
Sources of ongoing strength during the fourth quarter included electrical infrastructure spending in Brazil and Venezuela as well as construction activity from Central America.
Excluding the impact of the severe flooding in Thailand which reduced the operating income by approximately $6.5 million fourth quarter operating income would have exceeded our expectations due to the strength of our businesses in Latin America.
In North America sequentially stronger demand for aerial transmission products and specialty cables particularly those used in natural resource extraction offset normal seasonal declines in our other North American businesses.
The fourth quarter of 2010 reflected a record quarter for aerial transmission product shipments.
Sequentially fourth quarter operating income of $17.3 million was above our expectations as product pricing held up better than anticipated.
In Europe and Mediterranean project-related activities in our submarine power and terrestrial high-voltage and extra-high voltage businesses were more than offset by the further weakening of Iberian end markets.
The company's backlog continue to build during the quarter for submarine and land-based high-voltage and extra-high voltage cable projects.
Sequentially operating income reflects the impact of further weakening of Iberian end markets and Spain's severance-related costs of approximately $3 million.
Partially offsetting these decreases were stronger submarine and land-based high-voltage and extra-high voltage project-related production activities during the quarter.
Turning to Slide 11.
While volatile and uncertain at times the overall global business remains on a positive trajectory as reflected in our 2011 results.
For the full year 2011 we reported revenue of $5.9 billion which represents growth of 12% on a metal adjusted basis as compared to 2010 as metal pounds sold increased year-over-year by 8%.
Operating earnings increased 12% year-over-year principally due to the better volume and improved product mix and a better pricing environment in certain markets in North America and ROW coupled with the growing submarine and land-based project turnkey business in Europe.
Finally moving to Slide 12.
Our credit profile remains strong with the financial flexibility to fund our working capital requirements and to capitalize on global opportunities.
In addition the company repurchased $62.5 million or 5% of its common shares during the fourth quarter under the terms of its $125 million share repurchase program.
At the end of the fourth quarter the company had approximately $1.1 billion of excess liquidity across the globe.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg for a recap of our Q1 expectations and business trends which are summarized on Slides 14 and 15.
Greg? Good morning everybody.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2012 are expected to be in the range of $1.35 billion to $1.45 billion on sequentially flat to slightly up global volume.
This range reflects the recent significant volatility expected -- experienced in metal prices particularly copper.
Copper prices averaged $3.67 for the month of January which represents an increase of 8% as compared to the fourth quarter average of $3.41.
Copper continues to increase as prices have traded up this week as well.
It's now -- this morning in the $3.89 $3.90 range.
In the first quarter this recent increase in copper prices were helped to alleviate the burden of selling higher average cost inventory into our relatively lower metal price environment particularly as we progress through the quarter.
In addition conditions in Thailand just have started to normalize as the country begins to recover from the severe flooding experienced during the fourth quarter.
However the general weakness in our business in Iberia is expected to persist.
As a result we anticipate operating earnings in the range of $35 million to $45 million in the first quarter.
In quarter 1 should the metal -- in quarter 1 we estimate the impact of selling higher average cost inventory at about $10 million to $15 million of operating income about half of the impact experienced in quarter 4.
We expect the positive momentum experienced in the full year 2011 to carry into the new year with typical seasonal patterns returning.
We would actually see the second quarter improving nicely from the current level as we enter the construction season the weather is warm in the North Sea Baltic Seas and a lot of our new-built projects around the world come fully online.
So we feel good about the second quarter as metals stay in the current trading range.
We anticipate unit volume to grow in 2012 in the range of 3% to 7% year-over-year with the warmer months in quarter 2 and 3 being the strongest followed by quarter 4 and 1 respectively.
This expected improvement is based upon strength in aerial transmission projects in North America especially cable demand for products used in oil and gas and natural resource traction in North America electrical infrastructure mining and construction activities in Central and South America and the growth of our submarine and land-based high-voltage and extra high-voltage projects and wind farm and projects in Europe.
Before we get to the Q&amp;A I thought I'd just spend some time talking about how I currently see our global business environment.
In Europe and the Mediterranean market conditions for traditional construction and industrial cable products remain depressed particularly in Iberia as domestic end markets further weakened near the end of 2011 and construction activity has nearly ceased.
As a result we took further action to reduce personnel in our Spanish facilities in the fourth quarter.
Including these actions we have reduced our headcount in Iberia at approximately 20% at a cost of $29 million over the past 4 years.
In addition our pan-European go-to-market strategy continues to advance resulting in better market coverage improved logistics and plant optimization.
At the same time we continued to gain traction in our submarine and terrestrial high and extra high-voltage transmission project businesses with a growing backlog which is now approximately $650 million headed into 2012.
As a result our European business has shown improvement with relative strength during the warmer months when cables can be installed and services performed for turnkey projects in the Baltic and North Seas.
Consistent with 2011 we expect North America to continue to benefit from stable demand for products tied to information technology natural resource extraction and electrical infrastructure.
Momentum continues in the aerial transmission market as demand for aluminum products used to upgrade the grid and tie in new sources of renewable generation remains encouraging.
We also continue to see a positive outlook for our core specialty products driven by sustained investment in the natural gas oil and mining markets.
Our Data Communications segment continues to grow as we leverage commercialization of our 17 FREE product line for more and more of our data communication and fiber optic cables.
In ROW investments in power generation grid development extension and reinforcement residential construction electrical infrastructure and mining continue to fuel demand for the company's products in many emerging markets.
Aside from these fundamental growth drivers there are event-based sources of strengths such as the industrial construction activity in Brazil in preparation for the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympic Games in 2016 as well as recovery expected in Thailand following the devastating flooding experienced in quarter 4 '11.
Finally our strength and market position and investments in Mexico Peru South Africa and India should allow us to capture opportunities for mining construction and electrical infrastructure projects as well.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions]  Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Beach Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you elaborate on Spain specifically? In my analyzing the numbers it looks like the volume in Spain fell 50% fourth quarter from third quarter which may not be correct.
But if it is it's just a huge drop.
And you're taking restructuring but is the restructuring going to return Spain to profitability? And what kind of margins would depress business in Spain might you target let's say for the second half of this year going forward? Jeff Spain has stepped down.
Housing has gone from a peak of about 800 000 units to about 65 000 units over the last 4 years.
About -- we're -- there's some ins and outs but we've been able to pull cost down in Spain.
We -- the new President has got a number of initiatives which I think will be announced shortly and have announced some with respect to more labor flexibility.
We have got about half of our volume now leading Spain and going elsewhere in the region in fact all over the world.
We know -- we continue to look at the problem.
As you know our facilities around Barcelona are 50 60 70 miles from the French border so we happen to be in Spain.
Our job is to push more volume in other markets.
But Spain has been our second largest market historically and has shrunk materially.
We're also seeing pressure at the local and state levels that is the government in terms of their spending.
And of course with no housing the electrical transmission spend is also reduced.
We continue to look at the envelopes.
They're all focused around product families.
Again the pricing in Spain is awful because of the demand drop but we've been able to really continue to focus the output regionally.
And also we have focused hard in Portugal on the communications business which we think is a better business.
But Spain is broadly operating putting aside quarter-to-quarter but we're at roughly the operating breakeven number a bit below that in the fourth quarter as I think there's a lot of fear and distributors didn't want to hold material.
So the volume drop was strong as I think fear spread into Spain.
I'm watching bond prices and other things.
And while I don't think Spain gets well any time soon as a domestic economy we are a leader there as we are in Portugal and we'll stay focused there.
But really think of it as facilities that supply the entire European Union North Africa the Gulf they happen to be in Spain.
But yes that was a very strong market for us historically.
We've pulled a lot of cost out.
We continue to look for more labor flexibility and for more process improvement but that's the weakest part of our business in Europe.
We expect our demand in Europe for the high-voltage and submarine to remain relatively strong.
And certainly other markets that didn't have the bubble are relatively more stable but there's a knock-on effect as capacity looks for work.
So we continue to look at how we can pull cost out.
We've taken our headcount down from 1 600-ish to around just below 1 200.
And we continue to build the business the plants with more business regionally which is the market they serve.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good.
Just one other question.
On this copper squeeze I guess is the way I'll describe it.
The fourth quarter was pretty severe.
And explain the lag here if you look at the copper pricing in the fourth quarter and I had assumed in the first quarter you've got pretty much across-the-board lower costs running through your income statement.
Why is the pricing on the cables not moving up enough to completely eliminate or alleviate the situation in the first quarter? And what's your markets? We have announced price increases.
It's harder to do in markets with lots of open capacity such as southern Europe where people are trying to absorb fixed.
We hope that that zero-sum game eventually if people can't make money they either leave the market or they need to raise prices.
But frankly Jeff we look at sort of the trailing average as we think about our forecast and copper has been moving up strongly.
So if we continue to see copper in this $3.90 level I would say we would be looking toward the higher end of our $35 million to $45 million range.
The U.S.
and Canada are relatively stronger markets so there seems to be a better element of pricing discipline.
And that gave us a positive a healthy surprise in the fourth quarter where we did better than what we had estimated in terms of copper headwind.
Again we're dealing with a profound movement of copper down by $1 a pound or something like that in a very short period of time.
So anyway the tail of that I would say we're dealing with it relatively well in the U.S.
and Canada.
I would say most of the ROW developing country markets are generally getting it through.
And Europe is probably the most difficult market.
I'd also point out that aluminum broke more than $0.20 a pound over a very short period of time.
And we have as Brian said almost 40% of our business today is aluminum.
And those kinds of volumes they're not trivial.
So broadly if copper stays where it is today we would hope to be at the higher range end of our expectation.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Greg or Brian can you talk about the utilization by geography and then give us an update? You talked about some investments of where your capacity overall capacity went.
I know it's going to be directional I'm assuming now.
But anymore color you can provide will be helpful where the capacity went in '11 and what the expectations are in 2012 that maybe caused any specific growth initiatives that -- from a capacity perspective that would help us.
Yes.
There isn't unfortunately any kind of independent analysis of demonstrated capacity theoretical capacity et cetera.
But broadly we remain in most markets down say 20% say in North America from the peak.
Spain is off by more than 50%.
The home market is off materially more than that.
But broadly I would say the U.S.
-- again we only can look into ours then we get into discussions that we're running 7 days or 5 days plus over time.
But broadly I would say the U.S.
is relatively stable in the -- again we have 13 factories I think in the U.S.
and several in Canada.
So it depends on the product et cetera.
But the U.S.
demand seems to be kind of rolling sideways.
Some areas of some strength with our specialty cable business which is in the rail and oil and gas and transit seems to be pretty good.
I look at our portable power and control and that seems to be stable as a good look into the overall economy.
Again down 15% 20% or more from the peaks but stable and kind of rolling sideways.
A little bit of weakness in the industrial markets but I think last year was a very good year with a lot of activity but generally at a decent level but again down from the peak.
The telecommunications side is really at the maintenance and repair level and seems to be somewhat stable.
We see the utility market more outlead by transmission as opposed to the distribution side picking up.
People are scrambling to win projects under the grid.
And I guess there's uncertainty with the renewal whether that will be renewed or not but that ends some of the incentives this year.
But there is some nice activity around wind around transmission as they have to take this sort of stranded power into the grid.
So in North America we're leveraging into the North American market product families that we make all over the world and particularly in the Americas so we have some internal growth and see the U.S.
generally up next year maybe mid-single digits.
In Europe we have very nice momentum in our submarine cable businesses.
Again we have to go ahead and execute those projects and they're very complex projects and they're both high-voltage and medium-voltage submarine plus we've had a lot of the European grid interconnector work that is bullying Europe; again they have to be paid for.
But we see nice growth double-digit growth easily in our submarine cable business which also includes our submarine fiber optics business.
We also see some major spending in Algeria that is public spending some weakness in Egypt but Algeria is pretty strong.
And then I would say I expect Spain not to step down further but to really roll over for a while at a very low level.
So Spain dropped in the second half of last year.
I don't frankly expect it to get worse.
Unfortunately all of the cost take out is -- I think we're doing better than some in that market but all the cost take out has allowed us to stay strong as a leader in that market.
But it's not -- we're not going to get a return on those assets.
But again those assets are really servicing a much greater area.
We see very nice growth in Chile in Central America.
We see growth in Columbia.
Thailand we think recovers from the floods and nice growth.
And again I would say significant we have a full year entry into Peru which again we saw nice growth.
The Brazil will be -- we had some major shipments.
We have a pause for the transmission which is metal-intensive and then we'll see more in 2013.
But Brazil we're pushing into the industrial and data communications market.
A little bit of weakness in Africa.
but probably rolling sideways and we do have a facility that we have improved in South Africa that I think will help us.
So net-net we see decent activity in the rest of the world.
Europe Northern Europe and submarine offsetting really a step down in Spain.
I think Portugal is already operating at a low level so I don't see it getting worse.
In North Africa we seen some strength in Algeria offsetting Egypt which is profitable but again with the uncertainty investment has slowed down there.
In the U.S.
basically moving sideways to up in some product areas plus our job is to be our customers' preferred partner so we work hard on that as well.
So I feel good about 2012.
It's not a breakout but I would say if barring any further fallout in Europe if we do get a gradual healing there I like our hand.
And as you saw -- may have seen in industry week we continue to place plants among the best in the world or best in North America and that culture is obviously worldwide.
So we've also taken out lots of costs internally through leveraging purchasing/manufacturing technology best practices which we hope we can take to the bottom line as these world markets begin to recover.
And we see something beyond the early cycle business where construction really starts to get serious particularly in the U.S.
and Canada which will give us a lot of nice leverage on the upside.
That's a long answer to I think an open-ended question about what are we seeing in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And just let me squeezed another one in.
Just to understand the puts and the takes around the Q1 guidance as it pertains to Q4.
I think you talked about $20 million of price costs.
I know in Thailand you expect to get better volumes you expect it to be up a little bit.
Maybe just walk through the pressure you alluded to in the previous question.
If copper stays where it is maybe some of that pressure goes away.
But relative to that $20 million relative to the pressure in Thailand what is assumed from those 2 sources in your Q4 guidance? Matt it's Brian.
In our Q1 guidance we are looking forward from Q4 and as we said in our prepared remarks we thought that again the average cost impact.
And we have to always keep thinking about also in terms of the pricing our ability to move price in the different markets.
But the first quarter impact would be half of what it was in Q4.
So stepping down from about we think about $20 million of impact in Q4 to about $10 million or so in Q1.
And then I think the other pieces to it as Greg said I think for 2012 overall we feel pretty good.
And we feel pretty good as we've referenced as we think about the second quarter.
I think in addition to the metals the things that we're wrestling within Q1 are that exit rate in Iberia which doesn't just flip a switch on January 1 and get materially better.
And then there's some seasonality a couple of seasonality points I'll mention which would be in some of the Latin markets you would have a generally weaker first quarter for events like Carnival and other things in those markets.
And also as the impact on Q1 around some of our project business where the services that we can perform in the Baltic and the North Sea are let's call it muted relative to the summer months.
So those are some of the factors that sort of go to the -- what's the right word -- which are maybe in the headwind column as we enter into Q1.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson and Company.
Research Division</strong> Greg is there going to be more charges associated with Thailand looking ahead? Well that wasn't a charge -- we were trying to be helpful in terms of explaining a natural disaster.
But Thailand will be significantly better than the fourth quarter and we'll be profitable in the first quarter.
I think we'll really begin to hit in stride as we go through the year.
But it's been a devastating flood.
We can't get -- the customers are having a hard time receiving product they need product and then of course getting exports out of the country.
It is our major hub and largest operation in the region and trades all the way into the Gulf and all the way over to Oceania and elsewhere.
So we see a material swing in Thailand in the first quarter and then that continues up.
And I don't see other than it will underperform its potential in the first quarter.
I don't -- it will be profitable but it will miss by millions what it could be doing if there were no flood in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like it's returning to normal at least? It's returning to normal but it's a slow return.
Again a lot of the distributors we have in the country utilities there in sort of the triage level and then they begin to rebuild the infrastructure et cetera.
So we think demand is going to be strong but it's really how the country works through this crisis.
But there will be a multi-million dollar swing positively.
The business should be positive I believe in the first quarter but well below its potential.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just trying to get a better feel for the backlog in Europe.
I guess sort of assuming no changes in conditions in Iberia what would you expect that backlog to sort of begin to contribute to stronger earnings for that segment? I mean would there be sort of a ramp in terms of delivery of cable? Yes it actually helped mitigate almost paralysis in Spain in the fourth quarter.
And again we've seen -- in other crisis we've seen places pause and sort of business leaders do nothing until the crisis.
So they had no action.
They had a major economic crisis which they're still in but they've elected a new government.
And frankly we had a decent offset to Spain which did not make money in the fourth quarter.
Spain made money for the whole year from an operating income perspective which I think is quite extraordinary and a testimony to really our guised one-company business model that we've deployed in Europe.
We are putting load on those Spanish factories as we are a major player in Europe and access to lots of markets.
But they were contributing to fourth quarter not enough.
So much of this is now tied to the big investment we made in the submarine cable area.
And given that they really can't be activity in the current conditions in North sea we expect a very nice contribution in the second quarter.
Again we've got to manage these projects their percentage of completion.
And there's all kind of things we don't control in terms of these very complicated grids in terms of timing and other vendors they need to have their equipment at the site on time.
But generally we expect now looking forward for our project business to have a nice contribution in the second quarter and beyond.
And the primary pickup in Europe will be the seasonality of our projects so we'd expect a much better performance in Europe in the second quarter from the first.
And we continue to look for ways of pulling costs out of our manufacturing envelope in Europe which is as you know is 4 facilities in Spain 1 in Portugal a very large complex in France which again is doing well and the French market has held together and then a major facility in the North Sea area for submarine projects as well as a couple facilities in North Africa.
So I feel that Europe Spain we don't expect to have anything other than what we can do to help ourselves.
I don't expect demand to materially improve.
Eventually some competitors -- economics says that people can't do this forever.
But it's a huge adjustment when you have domestic demand falling on average about 60% peak to trough which is obviously far worse than anything we really have seen anywhere in the world.
But I feel like that we're doing the right things in Europe and we've got a very energized team and we do have some European focus around alternative energy and good reinforcement which helps us.
Research Division</strong> Sure that's helpful.
And Greg you mentioned on Spain I guess without the severance cost would you have been profitable there for the fourth quarter? No we would have missed.
But again just to give you a sense we put through the P&amp;L.
I think we called it out once when we had a huge drop of people I think $11 million from memory in the quarter 3 of...
Second quarter of 2010.
Second quarter Of 2010 but we have put through P&amp;L approximately $30 million of in Spain which is one of the reasons why there are issues.
We sort of go through this negotiation with people individually.
Again we've made a lot of progress with our trade unions but that country is going through a gut-wrenching change and you can read about it almost daily in the Wall Street Journal.
I think there was an article yesterday on their vacation time.
But again a very productive work force.
We just need them at the wheel with us and we'll be fine but we're not alone.
But yes Spain had made money during the course of the year last year but the majority of the money it made was in the first half.
But we were really -- we've been adjusting now for 4 years there and running it through the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Sure Greg just one more if I could.
And I appreciate all the previous commentary on kind of your outlook for 2012.
But the guidance of 3% to 7% unit volume growth for the year how much of that is sort of project-related business or business you've got in your backlog now versus kind of what you expect? Yes.
You go through sort of unit versus dollar growth then the projects have a lot of metal in them but really you're getting paid for engineering and for installation and things like that.
But our project business it is probably -- this is where we actually have turnkey responsibility on land or in sea is in the $300 million to $400 million range.
It's lumpy annually.
So we've got about 2 years in backlog.
Again some of it may be more than 2 years and some of them are multiyear projects.
But that's frankly $300 million on a company that's in the $6 billion range is a nice thing.
And this is obviously very complex high-value added products but it's not.
There are other projects we have but then you start getting into transmission or industrial projects.
So we don't keep a running grid of that but there's hundreds of millions of other projects.
But that's no different than most years where you do have specific delivery requirements for aerial cable or for industrial projects say oil and gas or something like that.
We have a delivery next August.
But our systems business has grown materially from say $50 million business 5 years ago to a $300 million to $400 million business and I'm proud of the guys that accomplished that technology and obviously we built an installation skill set as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison Longbow Research.
I just wanted to follow up on to an extent that volume question.
If we look at the 3 major regions against that 3% to 7% volume range for 2012 should we anticipate Rest Of World be at the top end of that range? And then how would Europe or EMEA and I guess North America shake out against that range? I would say we'll run into with the assumption that Spain as a domestic market and Portugal don't get better and that they step down in the second of the year I would gauge that Europe is likely to be at the lower end of that range while ROW Rest of World and North America toward the higher end of the range.
Okay.
Second question I had was I'm trying to figure out I guess profitability in Europe and how much of what's occurring right now if we assume Spain gets back to breakeven in the March quarter the region is essentially operating a breakeven is the mismatch between inventory and market pricing versus some other factors.
Because even if you add a big chunk of that market pricing back EBIT margins there are still much lower than where we were.
And I guess I'm trying to figure out I guess maybe the other question is what's the upside? What drives the upside? Is it the submarine in high-voltage business? Are there further actions to come? Just how do we come to retire? It's a great question.
I think the upside we are -- I feel good about our business model in Europe.
We're the I would say the #3 player regionally well behind Nexans and Prysmian.
And we have primarily been focused in France and Spain but we have traded all over the region.
So I think the first principle is we're trying to do is really leverage -- we're about 1.5 years 1 year into really a European model it's Pan-European including the Mediterranean leveraging a lot of the work we have done in the U.S.
So this is really cross-leveraging their facilities making it easy for customers to place their order in the company product management continuous improvement.
And again there's been aspects of it but I think we've used this crisis to really hammer that hard.
We have a very strong aggressive team there.
The business should pick up nicely in the warmer months meaning in fact even in the fourth quarter because we get to do these projects which are inherently better business than -- I think there's more capital employed in them in terms of you need serious equipment to do it and you know that we spend more money to get in a position to do it.
But the project business both land and sea will be the strongest driver and I think then expanding our reach globally with our footprint and riding profitable business as one company is the other lever.
Eventually Spain there's a fair overhang of houses to be sold and restructuring that banks need to do.
But eventually Spain comes around.
But we're profitable in our undersea business.
We're profitable in France.
We are marginally profitable but profitable in North Africa despite the remnants of Arab Spring.
And in Portugal actually we're trading heavily throughout Africa and throughout the region.
So I think the big step-up is our one company and then really getting into the sweet spot of the projects.
As you know we've just won projects.
They're being led.
They're complicated thing so you need lots of approvals and sea lanes clear and everything else.
So we'll never be linear but it is feeling good and we continue to strengthen our skills.
So I think really the business mix shift in Europe to higher-valued products as well as working in the communications area we're doing a lot of nice work in the data communications area and the fiber optics.
Copper we have now that set up as a global business.
We have a small but nice footprint in Europe and Bob Kenny is doing a fine job in really leveraging our global relationships.
So I think that's going to help as well.
As well as I had an expectation we should pull $10 million-plus of cost just in building things exactly the spec doing more with less.
And we're having very serious discussions with our workers council about everything because they need to be competitive globally.
This is a follow-up.
Of that $10 million of headwind expected into the March quarter from the price mismatch how much of that is European-focused? Shawn we have to think about it because again we're looking at this relatively alone.
Our best estimate here is I would -- of the overall number that we mentioned I would weigh it towards the European business.
So I can't give you a precise number but again it's back to -- it's a market that is so weak that our ability to move price to help offset the impact of the higher inventory cost is more muted than in many other markets.
So I think when you think about that $10 million delta from Q4 to Q1 I guess that weighted more towards the E and Med business.
I would expect Shawn that Europe will be -- we have a view that Europe will be profitable but at roughly half the operating margin of the U.S.
-- I'm sorry of North America and ROW.
So again we don't want to get into the 2012 forecast but it is profitable but it is just in that work out.
We don't expect it to be contributing the same as the other regions but we expect it to be contributory principally for the reasons I told you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Wesolowski with Sidoti and Company.
LLC</strong> Looking forward to a period when copper doesn't have as great an influence on your results.
Greg in the past you stated that the company could generate $1 billion to $2 billion of additional sales without adding much in fixed costs which I was translated to mean that you could add ships or expand ships in your existing plants.
Right.
LLC</strong> Given that your leading competitors were similar in abating close any large plants during the downturn can we expect that as volume improves for General Cable and for the entire industry the companies will continue to expand their effective capacity by adding those shifts thereby pushing the industry further away from utilization that would be necessary to get real pricing power? We saw obviously real pricing power in the last cycle and we may or may not see the replay of '06 '07.
But some markets are pretty good and maybe getting better.
That question we continue to try get our breakeven points down and we expect to drive costs out of the system internally.
We don't communicate our goals around that continuous improvement or lean journey as we call it.
But we know some capacity as high-cost capacity is not working I don't know if it comes online.
But in my own thinking is we have key customers.
If the market comes back and they need our output sure I wish we had utilization levels up in the high 80s and 90s and in some areas we might.
But capacity sort of goes away but it's not like the car industry where you can point to specific facilities.
We've talked in the past about some facilities being shuttered and we sense that some competitors are struggling but I don't know Richard.
I still see that if we can get anywhere back toward a normal construction environment in some of our major markets I feel good about the business.
but I -- and if capacity goes away that's great.
We would expect to see less and less capacity being built today.
So a lot of the investment by competitors would've happened 3 or 4 years ago.
We did note that there have been some plans announced for the U.S.
in the high-voltage extra high-voltage area but that capacity is going and coming all the time but there isn't anywhere I can point to you saying what is or isn't because there's no independent work.
But I still feel we have 1 billion-plus of open capacity and we're running kind of sideways to up a bit next year we think.
And we know that if we can hold at the current pricing environment I hope it improves.
But if it's the current pricing environment we can go and run more that would fall on the bottom line.
LLC</strong> And then secondly speaking of your European submarine and the land-based transmission backlog which is growing how much more work would you book in that realm? And if the answer is not much are you considering expanding your capacity in that sector? That's a great question Richard.
Part of it is developing the technology and skill sets to manage these complex projects which are rewarding if done well because it's hard to do and not everybody can do it.
In fact very few can.
We continue to look at -- can these projects some of them we like to public policy European Union directives how committed are the German people to funding these.
It looks like very committed.
How about Spain to wind et cetera maybe less committed.
So we're sorting through all of that.
But we are busy; we could be busier.
We have some -- we also see the submarine oil and gas improving and we've done some work to add capacity there which should come online.
Again it was a relatively modest investment but a very intriguing part of the business.
So we continue to look at it.
We could go ahead and sure we could spend the money and double the business or we could optimize what we have now but we're relatively busier in those areas that we are in other parts of the company.
So I don't have the same kind of upside with those existing assets because they're right in the sweet part of the demand.
And it's probably 18 months.
If I make a decision now and the management team and the board to bring on capacity but we're constantly looking at that.
Is this a 10-year or 20-year run? And then I look at relative returns on capital and be mindful that the capital investment is important in this area.
And we can get sometimes equal returns in areas way off the radar.
So right now we have more room to build more product in those areas but haven't made any decision to add meaningful amounts of capacity.
But we did expand that capacity in hindsight I guess it was a good decision.
Where we added the high-voltage extra high-voltage we developed DC technologies and then went into the deep water on power and composite cables for the oil and gas industry.
I think that's been a good position.
And hopefully we'll see some of those shareholders rewarded with those decisions as the year progresses.
And in fact it helped us as I said earlier in the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Kure with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify I apologize if I missed this but the $650 million backlog of let's call it project activity for delivery over the next is it 3 years? And then if we use the blocks of time as just a year could you sort of layout the linearity by year? I know it's lumpy within the year but if you can just talk about the linearity over the next several years? Yes I mean Richard projects are getting moved around.
We're booking new projects.
We announced more booking in the fourth quarter.
But we said that maybe you missed it is our turnkey which is where we design engineer install projects is about a $300 million to $400 million business.
It is in percentage of completion so it's not linear and it's tilted towards the warmer times of year particularly for the submarine business.
And we said that we expected those businesses to contribution more strongly as the year progresses because in the North Sea and Baltic Sea which is where the bulk of our submarine work is done it's impossible to do any material work up there now because of the temperatures.
Research Division</strong> But that $300 million to $400 million is a 2012 number? Yes.
Again I'm trying to be helpful as opposed to commitment but that's about the size of the business.
And it will be lumpy and stuff will move out and stuff will move in.
And our capacity we're saying earlier is busier there than say other parts of the business.
And we've made some investments to get better -- deeper into the oil and gas submarine area.
And one day we think that that communications cable business will pick up as well as the submarine communications.
And that number includes our land turnkey business as well so that's the high-voltage extra high-voltage business that we do on a turnkey basis globally as well.
The submarine is probably becoming as bigger or bigger than the land piece at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm just looking at your business model now relative to a couple years ago.
Obviously you've taken a lot of costs out.
We've got a different mix here going forward with these projects.
In prior years there was some disclosure discussion around what incremental margins were potential for the model.
Now if we look forward to 2012 2013 with where your model stands now and if we just assume copper stays flat for the year which I know would be as not likely but let's just assume the copper stays flat for the full year at $3.90 3% to 7% volume growth where would that put you from an incremental margin perspective going into 2012 and '13? Yes I mean what we've said is to the extent you don't have to add fixed costs so it's a product that you actually have open capacity and then depending on the product it's a 10% to 20% net contribution depending on the product.
So lower-value added product say like overhead transmission cable which has a lot of metal content in it absorbs much less fixed cost in the factory because it's a simpler cable than say running a highly complex transit cable through one of our facilities.
So it depends upon what it is but it's 10% to 20% if I don't have to add new fix.
And in general we said we have 1 billion-plus of open capacity which we've talked about in prior time.
And frankly business is roughly rolling sideways if you think about pockets of strength offsetting pockets like Iberia.
And then of course some of that can be into new markets which competitors don't always greet you in a friendly way as they battled to make your experience unpleasant.
So a lot of it depends.
But I'd say a rough rule of thumb is 10% to 20% should fall to the bottom line depending upon what you're running.
And I'm not going to get into how much of our business is new entry.
We would for example we will sell more in India this year but I wouldn't expect it to be -- we haven't hit a critical mass yet so that business wouldn't be profitable.
I hope it is but we don't think it would be.
But we think it's going to be a very strong business for us over time.
So it all depends on where you are in the curve but in our new market areas I expect places like Mexico to be more contributory to this year and to have a positive swing Peru South Africa.
India I wouldn't expect it to be a contribution yet.
And we are beginning to get a return on our investment in the submarine area.
As you know Spain was strong for years.
And happily we took some of that free cash and leveraged it into other markets and I think in some ways some of the solution for us in Spain is the market reach that we've established through going beyond the Spanish domestic market.
And eventually our European business I would hope would pick up broadly.
But other than that we can't do much in Spain improving materially other than stuff we can do to help ourselves.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve O'Brien JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to revisit the operating income walk from Q4 to Q1.
If I heard you right there's sort of a $12 million benefit on the inventory side going from sort of a $24 million headwind to a $12 million headwind then maybe you get some savings on the $6 million of Thailand cost.
You get maybe some savings versus the $3 million of Spain restructuring actions.
I guess I'm just trying to figure out if some of these -- how some of these headwinds you talked about with the pause in Latin America or some slowness in Baltic services can really amount to -- what appears like a much bigger potential for an increase in operating income than sort of the $10 million jump your guidance suggests? Yes Steve.
I would say just on the average cost numbers you referenced the $24 million to $12 million I would think of them more as sort of $20 million and $10 million let's call on average.
That's more on the rounding side in terms of this walk forward.
So yes I think we get better and our favor would be a lower headwind from the net of the pricing and the average cost impact.
And then I guess we touched on some of this earlier but in the headwind column I put in it the exit rate to Iberia in the fourth quarter.
As Greg mentioned earlier the Q4 was a good quarter in our project business.
It was about as we expected.
But there is a -- it is a seasonally weaker Q1 again because of our or on a relative basis the inability to perform some of the project work in the North and the Baltic Sea.
So those are headwinds.
And in the ROW segment the headwinds are varied.
But it tends to be a region that we tend to have again a number of a slower to start to the year a number of holidays in the first quarter.
So on a relative basis we're seeing some of these headwinds in Q1 out of ROW.
So those negative factors are I guess maybe the link that maybe walks us down from your expectation or the way you've described it as being a higher expectation.
Research Division</strong> So really just getting the only difference in terms of operating income really comes down to the $10 million improvement in the headwind on the inventories? Broadly yes.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Looking at sort of North America profitability I'm just trying to understand some of the commentary that seem pretty positive toward General Cable's view of the profitability in the fourth quarter.
Looking at that metal volumes that weren't too far off prior quarterly levels commentary the demand for specialty cables for natural resources was healthy.
I understand there was some problems in terms of the average cost inventory.
So I mean was alone enough to create the Craig the difference in operating income profitability? When I look at sort of $17 million for the quarter versus the run rate in prior quarters of $30 million.
So...
Our fourth quarter is generally weaker because it's getting cold and the outside plant work is -- there's less than they've done plus you have major blocks of holidays as people adjust inventories in December et cetera.
So we would not expect unless we had a reoccurrence of 2006 '07 timeframe where you have economy expanding very rapidly.
Generally we would expect operating profit in the fourth quarter to be as strong as the third quarter.
Broadly our business generally is strongest in the second quarter followed by the third.
This is a broad rule of thumb over time.
But yes the headwinds were very big as we saw -- as we go through an average cost inventory that was built in the second and third quarter where metals were well above $4.
They averaged $4.15 or something in those timeframe in a market that again not everything flexes with the metals but we're selling stuff.
Some of it we actually -- they pay what we have pre-agreed price et cetera or there will be an adjuster.
But in general we had this very tough time of selling into a $3.41 average market COMEX with material that we built before in the over $4 range and we're selling 150-ish kind of million pounds of copper globally.
So that's -- you can do the math -- an enormous headwinds.
Again that's the gross headwind because some of the stuff is contractually handled in a different way.
We also had a $0.20 decline in the aluminum and we sell an awful lot of aluminum worldwide some of it with formulaic escalators and de-escalators but it's a big problem.
So I think -- I guess the takeaway is our volumes hung in there in the fourth quarter.
We held our market position.
We continue to do new initiatives.
And other than the big copper headwind which was somewhat less meaningly we held price better than I had anticipated when we spoke with you around the announcement of the third quarter results.
I felt good about it but it was way -- your point is correct it was way off of where we were in the third quarter where we're at $27 million or the second quarter where we're at $41 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay Greg.
I just want to clarify a couple quick things.
Do you expect any transactional currency benefits or losses in Q1? Steve it's Brian.
I would say probably why we've now gone to an operating income guidance as we said the fourth quarter the transactional benefits were about $5 million about what sort of a more normal run rate after a very extreme third quarter.
So far I would say we're probably slightly to the positive and the quarter to date but that's probably -- that's what I would offer on that.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean I'm certainly in line with your expectations for the fourth quarter.
The guidance reflects $3.67 copper and sort of $1.06 aluminum is that correct versus the higher levels of spot levels right now? That's right Steve.
It's probably correct and as we said in the prepared comments to the extent metals continue to hang in there that should be a positive thing for us.
Research Division</strong> I guess one more if I could.
I mean The share buyback this quarter do you feel like it's the right time to be buying back shares with the maturity coming up on one of your sizable converts in 2013? and operating performance during the quarter you must have seen that the drop in metal prices was really going to be a headwind.
So I mean I think generally if possibly like to be buying shares ahead of kind of an improving tone for the business.
Maybe you can just help us with your thought process on the buyback and your satisfaction with the program thus far.
Yes I would say Steve the headwinds from the metals and the significant drop in the metals you also have to look at the cash flow side of the equation.
So the significant drop can generate cash flow.
The converts that you mentioned in 2013 are also in the back half of 2013.
I would say I guess what I would comment on the buyback is when we look at it and we take a very long-term view on the business and where the stock where the value of the stock we thought it was just a one of a number of correct ways to deploy our capital in the current environment.
So yes that's what I would say about that.
Research Division</strong> You think the pace is going to kind of remain similar or I guess it just depends on where or you see the value in the stock price? Yes.
We -- I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
I wouldn't comment on that.
I think we'll leave it at what we -- we spent $62.5 million and we bought back 5% of the outstanding shares.
Research Division</strong> I mean do you think that the free cash flow in 2011 was sort of satisfactory and with respect to your expectations? Steve I think we -- again we have to take a longer view of our free cash flow.
I think in 2011 and 2010 our free cash flow were hit for different reasons.
In other words in 2010 volumes grew significantly in the second half of the year.
2011 for most of the year metal prices have run up and were higher so that required cash.
But if you go back to the couple of years before that we had very significant free cash flow and operating cash flows.
So this is -- again I'm going to go back to a broader perspective here which is part of our job in this business and certainly on the liquidity side is to be able to manage these massive swings than we get in working capital that come frankly they come quickly and they can be very significant.
And you can see that -- in our -- the piece I think we shared with investors and the piece that we have up on the website around our cash flows for the last 4 years.
Steve our operating performance improved last year.
We also -- I'm never satisfied with our networking capital as a percentage of revenues.
We're constantly trying to reduce that so we can improve our return on capital.
So that's one of the challenges we take as a management team.
We talk about our expectation around CapEx for next year and then we're looking at obviously continually on internal growth opportunities versus external and those kinds of returns.
So it's a big simultaneous equation but we're going to avoid getting into a discussion regarding how we think about deploying or not our authorization from the board to buy back the stock if we wish.
Your final question comes from the line of Brett Levy with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My sense is that because you're buying back your own shares that what you see in the M&amp;A market right now is not all that compelling.
Can you talk about whether or not you're still actively out there sort of looking at M&amp;A opportunities? And then the second one sort of revolves around hedging.
Obviously there is a swing factor around metals pricing and currencies.
Have you guys sort of put any thoughts in changing the way that you might hedge either of those factors? Maybe you're on mute for the first sentence or 2 but I think I'll let Brian talk about the hedging.
I'll address what I think you said is how are we seeing and still actively looking at M&amp;A kinds of work.
And I think the answer is yes we're one of the major companies in the world.
We've communicated for years around leveraging our product diversity and geographic building out of the developing world as well as taking advantage of trends within the developed world and aimed at return on capital over time.
So we're always looking at that.
I would say we're in the flow now with 4 years which is very -- it's not a normal business cycle as you all know.
So we aren't seeing that sort of peak to trough for a year-time horizon.
We're sort of in a financial recovery.
So we do see people who don't have the same business model that we have and the same kind of leverage saying maybe we should be part of a business that has that kind of scale and know-how.
So we continue to stay active.
We stay very fussy and discipline some things we do with a longer view on the capital where we enter markets such as India.
In this case we did not see an appropriate entry vehicle through acquisition so we built it.
That can be dilutive near term as you build put capital on the ground and then seek a market position.
In other places you can find things that you can really take cost out and there are an ongoing operating entity.
We stay in the flow.
We stay active but I wouldn't say that there has been any shift other than when people I guess are contrary in nature.
And I think of the operating model is such when people get tired of things that's always a good time.
And obviously it's been a long slog for a lot of folks depending on where you are in the world.
With respect to that -- so there's no change in our strategy internal growth versus external versus looking internally as we announced this year buyback which is still in place.
And we've acted on this in part.
With respect to hedging I'm going to turn it over to Brian.
Yes on the hedging side I would say on the large projects we haven't changed one bit and that's probably why we're getting these mark-to-market adjustments in our P&amp;L.
So what we're saying is on the large projects they've got many months sometimes years we're economically protecting ourselves against the currency and the commodity exposure.
And so that mark-to-market accounting answer is something that we call out in our results.
On the flow business we've over time looked a lot of different ideas so we probably -- we haven't changed our strategies.
On the currency side on the flow side we may be increased a bit.
But generally we look at these things over time and I would say we haven't dramatically changed anything.
This now concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Len Texter.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call for today.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later this afternoon.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thank you.
Your may now disconnect.
This concludes today's conference call.
Good morning my name is Sarah and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Manager Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release from last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our first quarter.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on the company's second quarter 2012 outlook and full-year business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide 5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook provided on February 9.
With that I will turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Thank you Len.
Good morning.
Overall our first quarter operating results were above our expectations as metal cost headwinds subsided during the quarter and volumes improved in most North American and European businesses.
Market metal prices increased during the quarter and were closer to inventory book values by the latter portion of the quarter helping to mitigate the burden of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment which was so strongly evident in the [indiscernible].
Otherwise as you can see on Slide 5 net sales inventory climbed [ph] movements and the effective tax rate were generally consistent with our expectation for the first quarter.
On Slide #6 we've provided commentary explaining our first quarter results compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 with Q4 net sales presented on a metals adjusted basis.
The top line was flat despite the sequential increase in unit volume of 6% experienced during the quarter.
Metal pounds sold in the first quarter included improved volume in Spain which was captured at very low pricing levels.
Gross profit and operating income in the first quarter reflects the impact of rising metal prices that helped to mitigate the burden of selling higher average cost inventory as we move through the quarter.
Also our first quarter results reflect the benefit of increased demand in many North American and European businesses as well as improving conditions in Thailand.
Other income for the first quarter of $6.8 million reflects a net impact of $8.2 million of accounting gains on economic hedges which are used to manage currency and commodity risk on our project businesses globally partially offset by $1.4 million of transactional currency losses.
This level of transactional currency losses is consistent with historical norms given the numerous currencies in which we transact business around the world.
Our adjusted EPS increased 60% sequentially from the fourth quarter.
On the next 3 slides 7 8 and 9 we have provided segment information for your reference.
First in North America sequentially demand improved across most business units including our utility businesses which benefited from a relatively mild winter and demand for cables used in wind farm applications.
Specialty cables particularly those used in natural resource extraction and transportation applications continued to be a source of strength.
Sequentially first quarter operating income of $30.4 million was above our expectation as metal cost headwind subsided and demand improved sequentially 10%.
In ROW sequentially demand driven by construction-related activity in Venezuela and the Philippines and normalizing conditions in Thailand was more than offset by a typical and seasonally slower start to the year in many Latin American countries.
Also the fourth quarter of 2011 included elevated copper rod shipments in sub-Saharan Africa following the rapid decline of copper prices at the end of the third quarter as well as strong demand for electric utility products in Mexico.
Sequentially first quarter operating income of $18.5 million was above our expectation as metal cost headwind subsided and conditions in Thailand improved.
In Europe and Mediterranean sequentially demand improved for medium and high-voltage cables in France along with the supply of offshore specialty cables in Germany.
Also metal pounds shipped out of our Spanish facilities increased in the first quarter as compared to the significant decline experienced in the fourth quarter.
Sequentially first quarter operating income of $4.5 million was above our expectation as metal cost headwind subsided and the benefit of higher volume in most European countries helped to partially offset the ongoing weak pricing environment in Spain and a seasonally slower submarine and land turnkey project business.
At the end of the first quarter the company maintained a $650 million backlog for submarine and land-based high-voltage and extra-high voltage cable projects.
Finally moving to Slide 10.
Our credit profile remains strong with the financial flexibility to fund our working capital requirements and capitalize on global opportunities.
At the end of the first quarter the company had over $1.2 billion of excess liquidity across the globe.
In addition the company has approximately half of its $125 million share repurchase program authorization outstanding following the $62.5 million or 5% of common shares outstanding in purchase during the fourth quarter of 2011.
Those shares were purchased in the first quarter.
With these comments I'll turn the call over to Greg for a recap of our Q2 expectations and full-year business trends which are summarized on slides 12 through 15.
Greg? Thank you Brian.
And good morning everyone.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2012 are expected to be in the range of $1.6 billion to $1.65 billion on high-single digit global volume growth sequentially.
Adjusted operating income is expected to be in the range of $75 million to $85 million excluding the impact of a one-time non-cash pre-tax charge of $6 million for the termination of a legacy pension plan in the United Kingdom.
Excluding items adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.65 to $0.75.
Our second quarter outlook reflects a seasonally stronger quarter with improved demand in operating results in each of our reportable segments despite the ongoing weak operating environment in Spain.
As summarized on Slide 13 we expect the positive momentum built in the full-year 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 to continue into the remainder of this year as we head into the seasonally stronger quarters.
Consistent with our viewpoint one quarter ago we continue to expect unit volume to grow in 2012 in the range of 3% to 7% year-over-year.
This expected improvement is based on a stable to somewhat improving markets in North America in ROW and the European-based global turnkey project business that is gaining traction and growing more than offsetting the ongoing market pressure in Iberia.
Assuming the current metal pricing and economic environment we expect the adjusted operating income for the full year of 2012 to be in the range of $270 million to $300 million an increase of 9% to 21% as compared to 2011.
The global pricing environment remains broadly unchanged as compared to 2011 as industry capacity levels remain at relatively low levels.
While we continue to experience pockets of pricing and demand improvement we are cautious as our visibility remains limited and cost inputs and turnkey project timing continues to be volatile.
With volume and earnings growth expected in 2012 we expect operating cash flows to be in the range of $200 million to $300 million assuming the current metal price environment.
As you know movements in metal prices and demand volatility can have a material impact on our working capital requirements and operating cash flows.
Our annual capital spending for 2012 is expected to be in the range of $90 million to $110 million in line or just below depreciation.
This range is slightly higher than our previous communication principally due to the timing of projects in ROW and for the purchase of equipment related to our European base turnkey project business.
Overall our expectations for 2012 have not changed.
As we've discussed in our previous call we expect to benefit from strength in global aerial transmission projects specialty cable for products using oil and gas and natural resource extraction as well as transportation applications electrical infrastructure mining and construction activities in Central and South America and recovery efforts in Thailand.
Our European business should continue to show improvement during the summer months as warmer weather allows for cables to be installed in the Baltic and North seas.
The company continues to look for ways to reduce costs in Europe generally and in Iberia specifically in order to allow the facilities to be globally competitive given the sustained weakness in the domestic market.
Also our recent investments in Mexico South Africa Peru and Brazil are maturing nicely.
And last week we announced another significant milestone as we inaugurated our manufacturing facility in India.
At current installed capacity our Indian plant is capable of generating annual revenues in the range of $100 million to $120 million complementing our existing exports into the country.
We are very focused on daily execution working capital management and continuous improvement.
We continue to be active in evaluating development opportunities in emerging markets as well as enhancing our product offerings and develop markets through both internal and external investments.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who'll assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jeff Beach from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In view of the stronger than expected first quarter volume up almost 6% sequentially you've given guidance for high-single digit growth in the second quarter.
How does this compare historically that seasonal climb particularly in view of those strong first quarter volumes? Yes it would probably be just a little bit sharper than historically or on the norm.
Again history has been bothered by 4 years or 3 plus of a financial crisis.
And then of course a booming 2005 to 2007 early 2008 timeframe.
So normal has been a word that we wish we could use more.
But I would say Jeff it's roughly in line with what we would expect.
There might have been a little bit of pull forward.
We don't think very much in the utility business due to the warm weather in North America.
Projects move around and we're trying to think maybe through a year rather than quarter-to-quarter because these turnkey projects including the big transmission projects can bounce around or be delayed a couple of weeks.
But broadly we would expect North America to be up in the high-single digits a little bit less in Europe and Mediterranean principally because of the stress that we're seeing in Southern Europe.
And then in the rest of the world we would expect double-digit increases in the second quarter versus the first quarter.
But I would say pretty typical of what our modeling would tell us if nothing else is going on in the macro economy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up.
The inventories on a carrying cost went up in the quarter but on a metal adjusted basis were they up more than you -- inventories you were looking for flat.
Were they up more than expected because of the volume? No Jeff I'd say they were flat.
I think when you look in the balance sheet there's some inflation with respect to just your average cost and some currency but on the quantity basis well pretty flat.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So I guess following up on a previous question you talked about 3% to 7% volume growth last quarter for the full year.
You're doing a -- you did a little better than you anticipated in Q1.
Looks like Q2 shows -- is still showing some strength no change there.
I understand that that it's a somewhat wide range but just maybe talk about the assumptions that you're baking in for the back half that would cause that number not to tick a little bit higher.
Jim Matt I would say -- it's Brian I would say a meaningful piece of evidence [ph] is going to be around the seasonality in the business right? So we're expecting typically that second quarter -- second to third quarters to be our strongest quarters with a maybe a little higher bias towards the second quarter.
So it's -- we've given the annual guidance on the volume -- from a volume perspective a quarter ago.
This quarter we supplemented with the income which is really not -- which isn't saying we really have better visibility in the business.
It's really more a way of looking sort of from a full year sort of contextual perspective given some of the volatility we've seen on the -- and as we get moved around by copper prices as you've seen in the past.
So we'll see but I think when we think about '12 as we've said for quite some time the things that we -- as we said we're focused on the execution we're focused on the working capital management.
So we still feel pretty good in that 3% to 7%.
The U.S.
is -- the early cycle stuff picked up.
We see a little bit of wind activity because with -- there's a question of -- does it get funding continue so they're finishing projects and it looks like after the election the extension of the wind tax credits will play.
But the U.S.
I would say is broadly not accelerating.
It's certainly been over the last couple of years a pleasant surprise and came up faster than other parts of the world.
And it seems to be sort of moving sideways though seasonally we will be up but that's seasonal not a broad break out.
We continue to focus on execution and continuous improvement and that's -- so we expect to pull costs out of the business every year.
In Europe what's happening there is France seems to be okay.
We are now one company in Europe.
We're making some progress in European markets.
As you know Europe was built through acquisition.
And we've been -- reluctant to really get -- to get real specific about our turnkey submarine business because we are really in the startup mode winning contracts and then needing to execute them.
The execution is always difficult and complex and timing moves around because these projects have many actors including governmental.
But we do have that largely buoying the continued weakness in Spain and frankly all the cost out we have in Spain gives -- has been given back to the markets as that demand has even stepped down in the second half of last year.
So we're hoping is continuous cost out in Iberia a stabilizing market domestically exporting more out of Spain into European and regional markets and then ROW is still a story of the Americas being the strongest but we've seen nice activity in the Philippines and in Thailand as the Thais begin to recover from the natural disasters.
But the Americas are probably our strongest market even without U.S.
construction anywhere on the board yet.
So net-net I think this is a year of sort of that 3% to 7%.
Some of it we're helping ourselves.
So I wouldn't describe the markets as growing necessarily in those levels.
We have some new plants coming on and then we're executing them on some of the investment we've made over the last couple of years.
But that's sort of a broad travel through what we're seeing.
Research Division</strong> The other question I have is really about the assumptions in the guidance I mean -- this is for you Brian.
You've seen SG&amp;A kind of bump around a little bit '93 '96 back to '94.
So the first question is what's the SG&amp;A assumption we should be making both in Q2 and for the full year? And then any commentary about items below the operating line we should keep in mind as we're viewing the quarter or the year? I would say that from an assumption perspective as you know these things can be variable.
But I'd say on the SG&amp;A the modeling or -- I think we've described it as to be helpful $95 million plus or minus.
So I think that continues.
We're watching every cost.
Obviously in Europe we're focused really hard on reducing every cost.
So that's what I'd say on SG&amp;A side.
Below the line Matt I'd say as you can see on the mark-to-markets on the metals and the currencies for the large contracts which we adjusted after the EPS adjusted EPS purposes.
Interestingly the fourth quarter was $8 million loss and is mark-to-market and most of that came back in the first quarter.
So again we don't assume that in our -- we're still[ph]  basically flat in our guidance.
The other last piece would be on the interest expense.
I would expect -- in the second quarter we see interest expense maybe $2 million to $3 million higher which is partly seasonal to support the working capital investment behind the higher volumes and also in our operations outside of North America has more to do with some timing payments timing of metal payments and paying for longer terms.
But those would be the principal items.
Research Division</strong> And would that interest expense number then tick back low in the back half? You know I would say our expectations is it will be in that 23 to 26 kind of range.
Matt I would expect that it would tick lower as we move to the seasonal working capital.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
First question I had was just trying to I guess triangulate the European profitability this quarter to make sure that I have everything correct.
Volumes were up very nicely.
But then you highlighted weakness within -- pricing within I think Spain.
I don't know if any other regions -- was it just the fact that whatever volumes you ship out it was a negative mix shift either because of pricing or was it a mix of product also a little bit weaker and how does that normalize into the second quarter? The mix is weaker because we didn't -- while we did more work it was the oil and gas and submarine cables then we had anticipated we would do in the winter where you can't install.
So that was a bit better than we thought.
But really that business begins to contribute in the second quarter because of weather breaks.
So yes in Europe the mix would be better in the second quarter because we are doing submarine projects in a much bigger way than we could in the first quarter.
There really hasn't been a mix shift out of Spain.
I would say Europe and North Africa is fairly a wash-in [ph] capacity.
We're having to sell about 65% of what we make in Spain into regional markets.
They're fiercely contested and Spain stepped down in terms of demand.
So anything available in Spain was equally fiercely contested.
Clearly that's causing a lot of stress for industrial enterprises including competitors in Iberia.
So we are blessed with having access to other markets but we also need to keep driving our cost down because we're not anticipating that -- Spain will recover but it won't look like it did obviously for some years ago.
France has been a nice story and we continue to see pretty strong spending by the utilities in France which our communications business in Europe is getting traction and that's a pretty nice business for us.
We have some fine micro-sheet products that we refer to.
So fiber and copper Datacom is strong.
And then we're very busy generally in our oil and gas and specialty products principally out of Spain.
We also make some of those products in France and also Germany.
So I would say more of the same.
We are working hard on one company in Europe which was built through acquisition.
So everything from best practices lean manufacturing safety purchasing and I think that's -- that will help pull us through this time.
But the mix is broadly the same just because of the winter we couldn't do a lot of the higher value products.
And we got into I would say a step-down in pricing into some of the export markets in Spain as those volumes broadly weakened.
We are doing well.
We're seeing a little bit of a pickup not materially but we're executing in North Africa and we have -- we service also parts of Africa from Portugal.
And I would say those businesses are enough.
Would they might we would hope but I would say we're performing a bit better with Africa probably being the strongest piece of that mix.
And then I guess just 2 brief follow-ups.
Just on pricing within Europe do you think we found the bottom and then moving to South America maybe could you just talk about I guess the summertime outlook if you're seeing any volatility in projects? Yes I think we're clearly around the cash cost of the least efficient producers in Spain.
You need a balance sheet to get through it.
You need financing.
As you know the working capital is daunting in this business.
So I would have to say that we are at a level where you can't imagine much more downside in copper or aluminum products out of Spain in terms of pricing.
For some competitors you're better not working and tying up capital at these levels.
The -- and to answer Central and South America there is projects that are out of Brazil and there are projects transmission projects throughout the region.
But be mindful that we've got -- a lot of our core activities are around the daily flow business of construction and specialty products.
We continue to bring product designs from the Europe and the U.S.
into the regions.
We're expanding our capabilities in Brazil to make industrial and data cable products.
Mexico continues to mature as an important market for us and we're well into that startup around field.
And then of course there's Central America and the [indiscernible]  impact.
But broadly the Americas remain strong and -- I mean that's -- in a relative sense and we're -- we continue to push hard really bringing new products into the region.
But they do have a seasonal pickup in the second quarter and that should be a low-double digits kind of improvement from the first quarter.
This is Brian.
I just want to come back on one of the previous questions from Matt which is on below the line items -- on the mark-to-market adjustments we assume that those are 0 going forward I may have used the word flat but it was -- but I -- my intention was that we assume they're 0 which is how we describe it in the release and in the slide presentation.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Wesolowski from Sidoti &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> In the past couple of months we've seen Nexans acquire AmerCable and then launched a plan to build a high-voltage plant in South Carolina.
General Cable as you've could expanded your footprint it's focused less and less of your spending in North America.
Could you comment on whether you'll need to invest in North America in a larger way than we've seen in recent years? Or if not remind us of why you would expect to maintain share in the market? Yes.
Well Rich -- as -- and I think as our investors know we've talked about the high-voltage extra-high voltage business in North America.
We hope it grows quickly and well in terms of underground projects.
We have historically supplied that from France.
When we built our facility in Mexico we built a capability to sell high-voltage products underground from Mexico throughout the region including up to Mexico -- up to Canada and down through the Central America and South.
So we have that capability.
I would say that we hope Nexans is right in terms of the demand.
We can service it.
But we did not feel we needed to make a facility in the U.S.
to go beyond basically 132 in some sizes up to 220-kilovolt.
ABB Nexans and Prysmian have announced plans in that area and I think our combination with CLEC Thailand and Mexico in combination contests well from a cost basis in technology.
We have always felt that the developed markets would go ahead and rebuild the networks and we're positioned to do that.
We aren't shy -- while we have had a view of taking products into the developing world products in inter markets.
We have invested in Europe.
You saw us get into the broadcast cable business in the U.S.
And under the right conditions we would certainly look at investing in the U.S.
and Canada.
We think our share is strong but we're always looking at other product lines in the market.
So we continue to see opportunity in the Americas and frankly it's been one of the quickest snapbacks globally of the developed world from the financial crisis.
So we're very careful towards [ph]  the capital and with lean manufacturing.
You're continuing to look at what could you theoretically run with these machines if you had one-second changeovers and no scrap no waste nothing and we call that entitlement capacity.
So we really are -- well we're really focused on return on capital employed broadly as well as being critical to our customer we often talk about the power of one.
We talked about it so the strength of the large and nimbleness of the small and that remains our model.
So I feel very good about our position in the U.S.
and Canada.
And we certainly have maintained our prominence and we're always looking for fresh opportunity whether internal development we also -- be the last year as I think you remember we entered some of the specialty oil and gas markets to internal investment.
And secondly there's limited value in the inventory statistics that outside has been compiled and I'm curious as to by the metrics that you measure internally how your volume turnover has changed during the past year or 2 if at all? In the U.S.
and Canada? No.
Specifically your inventory as a company as a whole? Overall yes.
I would say Rich -- I think in the -- back in the crisis years late '08 '09 we saw a deterioration in the turnover of the inventory and since that time we've steadily continued to improve the turnover.
It's an area it's part of our working capital management it's part of our metrics that we are held accountable for.
And internally we use lots of different ways to measure that including -- actually on a volume business as you know and I appreciate that your comment outside the company is a little harder to measure it that way but it's -- I would say it's improved and it continues to be an area of focus.
We get it -- we can get -- we need cycle time.
We need visibility forward.
So you're trying to avoid building the stock.
We have trials going on with distributors.
So we're seeing into their inventory and doing a replenishment much like you might see in an OEM or retail area.
We're doing some of that with utilities so as you'll get better visibility you should be able to get to improve that management and this has continued to be an area of focus or else we would want to get the networking capital to support our dollar revenues down and also get our fill rates which are already very good up.
And those are key metrics that we look at.
How many shipments? What's the size of the shipment? And that -- all of that comes back to your capabilities to forecast and then have the right goods on the shelf.
We would rather have one day if we could because of the volatility of aluminum copper and to a lesser extent petrochemicals and steel.
Just circling back Rich just to be clear AmerCable is a major competitor of ours.
There are other competitors.
So we already have all the capabilities in place that AmerCable has which was acquired by Nexans.
And that's been an area that came to us when we acquired the ICC back in 1999 and there are -- have become global businesses with global competitors and we're selling all over the world and we also see competitors in this market.
But certainly our Brand Rex and Anaconda and other brands are every bit as sought after as the AmerCable which is also well known.
So we feel we're in a good position to compete well for those customers.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Kure from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
As we look at the full-year operating profit guidance correct me if I'm wrong but is this the first time you have issued full-year operating profit guidance? And if so I mean I know you have the volume out there but you mentioned the visibility is still generally limited it doesn't seem like there's a change in tone there.
So I guess the question is what's different about your model or mix? Or is it really these projects that are driving that confidence to go out with that full-year operating profit? Anthony as you know the markets in the 2005 '07 are rising rapidly and getting a handle on that rate of improvement was tricky.
We also had acquired Phelps Dodge and needed to get both comfortable with the business and see what it's capable of.
And then for the last 3.5 years we've dealt with both extraordinary external circumstances as well as a whole bunch of greenfields brownfields and entering -- investing to enter the turnkey systems business.
So we were really in a -- we were globalizing the company.
We were integrating we've done in 10 years 20 or 25 acquisitions.
So I think what we now have in metals we obviously -- there's many many things that we've said in terms of our view at this time.
So we need to execute we need the world to sort of look like it is today which is a soft recovery sort of rolling sideways to slightly up in most markets.
And what we felt as our investments have matured enough that we have had enough diversity and I hate to use the word new normal because I'm not sure what that means but given that we have some stability in the financial markets we felt that we could range it but obviously we don't operate other than the turnkey business with a material backlog.
We typically have 2 to 3 weeks of backlog and then we have obviously rapid material changes historically.
So this sort of assumes metals stay where they are.
The world sort of is at this "new normal" which is a measured recovery and that Europe gets to continue to stabilize as the Central Bank operates there.
But we felt that given all the investments in brownfields greenfields and the Phelps Dodge integration and the world stabilizing that we could be able to at least look at it in those terms.
But clearly we picked a point in time and a set of conditions and it didn't factor in for the problems in Europe or if metal dropped a dollar or went up a dollar.
Research Division</strong> I guess on a more near-term perspective I think you've talked about a $10 million headwind was expected in the first quarter from the copper playing out here.
Could you just estimate what that actually was? Was that probably a lot less in $10 million just based on your comments.
But and if you were to guess maybe would you say it was 0 or still a little bit of a headwind? Yes Tony I would say it's probably closer to that 0 to a little bit of a headwind.
I think most of the being beyond our expectations from a range of operating income was around the metals and while the volumes were obviously much better a lot of that was as we said in Spain at pretty weak pricing.
Research Division</strong> And then for the second quarter guidance I would assume that this is just a neutral factor altogether now is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then one last thing on the 2Q EPS I mean we touched on it a little bit with a higher interest expense but if we add $2 million or $3 million to the first quarter interest expense that gets to about let's call it $20 million.
It's only about $0.04.
Am I wrong with that $20-ish million interest expense? Is that expected to be bigger? Is that really driving the EPS at the midpoint of about $0.70 despite the high operating income? Yes and I think Tony your -- those numbers are on a non-GAAP basis right? Research Division</strong> Correct.
No I would say -- and the biggest mover from Q1 to Q2 a couple of things part of it is the seasonal nature of the business.
As we talked about the improvements that we expect the -- with the warmer weather more activity on the project side.
But again this goes a little bit back to some of our earlier discussions around our visibility.
So there remains -- and you can see in our materials that a number of certain moving pieces clearly Iberia remains a wild part as we move throughout the year.
So short answers I don't -- you're not missing anything.
I think the big items are around the volume and we indicated the interest expense.
And there are no further questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to General Cable for any closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sara and I'll be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corp.'s Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Manager Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release from last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our second quarter.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on the company's third quarter 2012 outlook and full year business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook provided on May 1.
With that I will now turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning.
We are pleased to report adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS were within our guidance range for the second quarter as each of our segments reported sequentially stronger results.
Our businesses in North America and ROW were a source of stability during the second quarter and in Europe we continue to help ourselves despite an increasingly more challenging macroeconomic environment.
Metal pounds sold for the second quarter increased 2% sequentially and 5% year-over-year but were below our guidance range.
Our previously communicated demand expectations for the second quarter failed to materialize due to the impact of the economic uncertainty in Europe and industrial slowdown stalling demand for wire and cable products in North America and the impact of declining metal prices on the buying behavior of electrical distributors and OEM broad customers.
Quarterly average copper and aluminum prices drifted lower for the second quarter declining 6% and 7% respectively from our previous communication.
Otherwise as you can see on Slide 5 inventory quantity movements and the effective tax rate were generally consistent with our expectations for the second quarter.
On Slide #6 we have provided commentary explaining our second quarter results compared to the first quarter of 2012.
The increase in global unit volume of 2% sequentially relatively stable pricing in North America and ROW and a favorable geographic mix in Europe helped to lift the top line more than 3% sequentially despite the impact of declining metal prices.
In Europe stronger demand for electric utility cables in France and the Mediterranean partially replaced the significant volume at very weak pricing levels reported in Spain during the first quarter.
Gross profit and adjusted operating income performance in the second quarter principally reflect the improved performance of the company's telephone and electric utility businesses in North America strong global aerial transmission project activity improving domestic conditions in Thailand mining activity in Chile and ongoing grid investment in France.
Other expense for the second quarter of $13.5 million reflects the impact of $10.2 million of mark-to-market accounting losses on economic hedges which are used to manage currency and commodity risk on our project businesses globally and $3.3 million of transactional currency losses.
Given the numerous currencies in which we transact business around the world and the currency volatility experienced during second quarter we are pleased with the effectiveness of our hedging program as we reported foreign currency transactional losses consistent with historical norms during the quarter.
On the next 3 pages Slide 7 8 and 9 we have provided segment information for your reference.
First in North America excluding metal pounds attributable to our telephone and electric utility businesses volume was up 1% sequentially as industrial and networking demand improved marginally compared to the first quarter.
Specialty cables particularly those used in natural resource extraction continue to be a source of stability.
Year-over-year excluding metal pounds attributable to our telephone and electric utility businesses volume was up 4% as stronger demand for industrial and specialty cables more than offset weaker demand in the company's other North American businesses.
Sequentially second quarter operating income of $38.7 million improved principally due to the strong performance of the company's telephone and electric utility [indiscernible] specialty cables businesses.
In ROW excluding aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil sequential demand driven by electrical infrastructure and construction-related activity in Latin America as well as the impact of the ongoing recovery in Thailand were more than offset by Rob Mill customers and distributors postponing orders due to declining metal prices.
We also experienced delays in aerial transmission projects in Brazil and high-voltage cable projects for export from Thailand during the second quarter.
Sequentially second quarter operating income of $29.3 million increased principally due to improving conditions in Thailand following the severe flooding experienced at the end of last year coupled with strong construction activity in Venezuela and the Philippines and mining activity in Chile.
In Europe and Mediterranean volume increased 4% sequentially as demand improved from medium voltage cables in France and aluminum-based electric utility cables in the Mediterranean.
Sequentially adjusted operating income increased to $10.7 million during the second quarter.
This improvement is principally due to the strong demand for electric utility products in France and the Mediterranean as greater liability work and investments advanced during the second quarter.
We experienced typical intermittent delays in shipping a project activity and milestones during the quarter in our submarine and land-based turnkey project business.
These projects are highly complex and movement of project activity between quarters is typical.
Project activity for the full year remains on track though green energy initiatives are broadly coming under some pressures due to public budget constraints.
At the end of the second quarter the company maintained a $650 million backlog for submarine and land-based high-voltage and extra-high voltage cable projects.
Finally moving to Slide 10 our credit profile remains strong with the financial flexibility to fund our working capital requirements and capitalize on global opportunities.
We remain focused on our capital structure and intend to maintain the financial flexibility and liquidity in the business in order to fund working capital requirements as well as the recently announced transactions.
The company intends to add the acquired North American assets of Alcan Cable to its existing U.S.
and Canadian asset-based revolver increasing the size of the facility thereby retaining an equivalent level of liquidity in the business.
At the end of the second quarter the company had over $1.2 billion of excess liquidity across the globe.
In addition the company has approximately 1/2 of its $125 million share repurchase program authorization outstanding following the $62.5 million or 5% of common shares outstanding we've purchased during the fourth quarter of 2011.
No shares were purchased in the second quarter.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg for a recap of our third quarter expectations and full year business trends which are summarized on Slides 12 through 15.
Greg? Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2012 are expected to be in the range of a hundred -- $1.43 billion to $1.48 billion on flat to slightly lower volume sequentially.
Adjusted operating income is expected to be in the range of $65 million to $75 million.
Adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.60 to $0.70 per share.
For our third quarter outlook stronger submarine and land-based turnkey project activity mining and construction activity in Central and South America and ongoing rebuilding in Thailand are expected to be more than offset by normal seasonal patterns in North America and Europe and planned seasonal inventory quantity reduction globally.
The positive momentum experienced in the early part of the year has stalled a bit as economies around the world are slowing signs -- are showing signs of weakness and metal pricing remains extremely volatile.
As a result and as summarized on Slide 13 we are lowering our full year volume guidance as we now expect growth in the range of 2% to 4% year-over-year.
And we're also lowering our range of expectations for adjusted operating income for the full year of 2012 to $260 million to $280 million.
This range represents an increase of 5% to 13% as compared to 2011.
While we have revised our volume earnings growth expectations for 2012 we reaffirm our previously communicated guidance with respect to the annual effective tax rate operating cash flows and capital spending.
As you know movements in metal prices and demand volatility have a material impact on our working capital requirements and operating cash flows.
Overall we are pleased with a solid first half of 2012 as adjusted operating income and volume increased sequentially 39% and 5% respectively as compared to second half 2011.
However as we have communicated for a number of quarters we continue to experience a slow recovery in important end markets as there remains a great deal of uncertainty around growth and prospects globally.
Our view of the full year 2012 is cautious as our visibility has become more limited and raw material cost inputs and turnkey project timing continue to be volatile.
Over the last weeks we have noticed a slowing of incoming order rates for products tied to OEM industrial and IT spending in North America.
On balance our updated full year view of 2012 implies a relatively stable second half of 2012 as compared to the first half with some risks to the downside.
This view reflects seasonal adjusted stability in our base business globally complemented by areas of strength in cable demand tied to aerial transmission oil and gas extraction and electrical infrastructure mining and construction in emerging markets as well as stronger submarine and land-based project activity.
We're very focused on daily execution working capital management and continuous improvement.
We also remain focused in closing and integrating the recently announced acquisitions.
In the second quarter we announced the signing of definitive purchase agreements to acquire Alcan Cable and a majority interest in Procables of Colombia.
We continue to expect the Alcan acquisition will close during the second half of the year.
Under the terms of the definitive purchase agreement there are separate closings for the North American and Chinese businesses contingent in various closing conditions.
The primary closing condition is in receipt of the necessary regulatory approval.
In North America we made competition filings in the U.S.
and Canada and we've already received approval in the United States.
In Canada the statutory waiting period expired on July 30 but we are waiting for the Canadian Competition Bureau to issue its formal approval of the transaction prior to closing.
We expect the Canadian Competition Bureau to complete its review of the transaction by mid-August.
In China we've made the necessary regulatory filing and that review process is ongoing.
Similarly we expect to close the Procables acquisition during the second half of the year.
In Colombia we've made the necessary regulatory filing and that review process is ongoing.
Together these companies are expected to contribute $750 million to $850 million of revenues annually at current metal prices.
Both businesses are expected to be accretive on a full year basis.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who'll assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Shawn Harrison of Longbow.
Just hopefully trying to get a breakdown of the 2% to 4% volume growth now maybe per region for 2012 and then maybe even on that just a little bit of color in terms of how we should expect the back half as well.
Yes Shawn.
Europe with some of our project activity and our efforts to export out of Spain despite the difficulties over there I think we may be bottoming and with a slight bit of pickup as these projects come through.
The U.S.
the big issues really are -- the wind hasn't been reapproved that is the wind tax incentive so the fourth quarter is a question mark whether -- and that may not get tackled until the fourth quarter but in the U.S.
our transmission has run strong.
I would say the other businesses' early cycle kind of stuff is at best rolling sideways as certainly the growth or increase has stalled out we saw that really going through the second quarter.
The rest of world again those markets are clearly linked to what's happening in the rest of the world but broadly we see a couple percent growth in the rest of the world in the second half of the year versus prior year and some upside to the first half it really -- the timing of the big transmission projects has a tendency to wiggle that around.
But overall I would say in that 2% to 4% range that's -- basically it's rolling sideways with probably Europe showing a little more strength and ROW really is fairly metal-intensive businesses and that's susceptible to push in and out.
I guess I have a tendency to look at the early cycle U.S.
businesses and that's at best sideways which says the economy's virtually stopped expanding.
Okay that's great.
And then just maybe 2 comments or questions regarding kind of M&amp;A.
Post the Alcan transaction what would you expect your exposure to be to U.S.
res construction? And then also how do the acquisitions play into your view for share repurchase activity in the back half of the year? Well U.S.
housing which is maybe bottoming and slightly picking up affects everything we do in one way or another.
Clearly we don't have a lot of cable inside the house though some of the sound security is there but to the extent there's housing that affects -- Alcan brings aluminum building wire that would be used in residential and nonresi construction.
And of course the housing ties to the utility spend for both telephone cable and electrical cable.
So we're encouraged because it will pull a lot along.
There's also portable power used on the job site there's high-end data cable in a home often can be sound security.
So I would say housing touches most of what we do though some of it is second order but the housing bottoming is a good thing from our perspective.
To the share repurchase we didn't purchase any in the last quarter.
We continue to have open authority to buy more and I would say we're constantly looking at strategic opportunity versus buying something we know well which is General Cable and you saw us buy 5% of the company a couple of quarters back and we'll continue to keep a very sharp eye on that opportunity in context to -- of other things that we might do.
And Shawn so it's Brian here.
We also -- as we said in the release and -- is that we will -- our intention to add the U.S.
and Canadian Alcan Cable assets into the U.S.
and Canadian revolver and upsize that facility to retain the liquidity in the business.
So that's -- we're deep into that process and so that will retain our liquidity retains the -- our ability to deploy capital in a number of different ways.
Your next question comes from Rich Wesolowski of Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> I don't think I've heard management focus so much on utility spending and grid reliability in France as a budding [ph]  European business.
Has there been a change in spending? Is this company successfully redirecting product and is it sustainable? The EDF has been a leader among transmission companies in the world and we have a important position there as I think we've been building over the years part of the French answer has -- to slowdown has been to do some spending internally on their grid and I would say it's stayed relatively healthy through the last years and we continue to develop our LAN DC cables we had cables for some title pools et cetera and some of the interconnectors.
So it's partially us with a long and growing position with EDF and I would say that's been buoyed by sort of French interest.
It's their form of stimulus I guess.
But we haven't seen it take off in this U.S.
and so the stimulus it's just been relatively strong in the crisis.
As you know the French nuclear reactors are supporting Germany and other places so the grid interconnectors have been important.
And France did not have a housing bubble that we saw elsewhere in Europe.
So it's also -- out of France we're doing global projects high-voltage turnkey projects which again have some lumpiness in terms of percentage of completion but that has been a pretty good business for us and we're working all over the world using French know-how and technology in doing a lot of work in the Middle East for example and elsewhere.
So when we talk about France the product source there was sold globally.
So it's not just a EDF story.
Yes and one other piece to that would be the cost containment programs in France.
I think we've done a very good job with our lean systems and that has been a multi-year process.
And we're continuing to receive the benefits from that -- the focus on cost control and cost down.
LLC</strong> Secondly with economies weak and copper and metals volatile your business has become seemingly more difficult to manage and predict.
In your minds does that suggest the company should carry less debt than has been common for yourselves and for the rest of the industry over the last few years? And will debt reduction at all be a focus after the Procables and the Alcan acquisitions have been completed? Yes Rich I think it's -- the working capital management is something we clearly understand and that's a large lever in terms of liberating cash.
And I think we're very good but we continue to focus on the working capital management.
We've invested in the first half of the year and we see most if not all of that coming out in the second half of the year.
So the additions of Alcan Cable which is -- and Procables which are both operations that generally are fairly well run so -- very well run I think to be -- to clarify.
So there will be I think continuing opportunities but I don't see it as a massive opportunity that there's fundamentally something broken there.
So I would really say it's -- it creates a larger opportunity set around best practices but ultimately running the business generating the free cash flow we're focused on that.
And ratcheting down the capital spending is also something that we're focused on spending for most of our businesses below depreciation but we're investing in certain areas as we talked about the oil and gas and we've had some final spending or --  on some of our installation assets in Europe.
Your next question comes from Tony Kure of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on the backlog.
You mentioned in the press release the backlog is around $650 million for submarine and land-based turnkey cable projects.
That I think is the same number that was in the first quarter press release which said it was static with the year-end 2011.
So I guess given that and it's fair to assume that you have sold some of that or revenued some of those projects did you -- have you been booking additional business to sort of backfill and keep that backlog steady? Maybe you can just speak to that.
Yes.
We're as you well -- as you know the -- these are big complex projects in the North Sea.
The Germans have been trying to figure out there's a lot of pushing and shoving in terms of -- are they ready? Do they have the transmission lines to bring  the power down? Where do liabilities begin and end among the different wind park operators versus the people riding [ph]  the so-called export cable the connection to the land.
So we have stopped coming in and out.
As time goes on we continue to book projects but I would say that while the Germans and others are committed to win we keep an eye on the public subsidy and there's a big backlog but the stuff moves around.
It's complex.
So there's a lot of public policy debate which you've probably seen in the papers in Germany over getting the government more deeply committed to how -- orchestrate this all happening.
So our backlog's there we're continuing to deliver but it stopped growing in the quarter but we bid plenty of jobs and again those are turnkey land turnkey submarine communications and also turnkey power which could involve the wind park itself or could involve bringing the cable to land.
So we've invested in the area and right now we're working on harvesting that investment.
But again with percentage of completion accounting the revenue recognition can be lumpy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess to put that in terms of your guidance then with third quarter operating income guidance at the midpoint around $70 million I think and then the midpoint of your full year is around $270 million.
So does that imply the fourth quarter to balance that out would be better? Are you -- is the expectation or is the implication there that the fourth quarter is going to be better seasonally than is normal? Well rest of the world again there's the turnkey projects which -- the submarine side we expect to kick in stronger in the second half.
And then rest of world typically has a somewhat a stronger second half of the year than the Northern Hemisphere.
So I'll let Brian embellish.
Yes Tony I would say in our traditional base businesses I think we see -- you heard us talk a little bit earlier about what we're seeing in some of the industrial businesses in North America for example.
But I think in the base businesses we're expecting somewhat of a seasonal normal -- a normal seasonal trend.
And then offsetting that would be our viewpoints around our project business and potentially sort of the run rate and the continuing improvement in our Thai business is maybe something that helps to let's say offset what we'll see -- what has traditionally been seasonality in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just wrapping up with the full year EBIT guidance does that assume that there will be any cancellations? I mean it sounds like there's some question or risk to some of these projects ongoing in Europe.
Does that assume that there will be cancellations there or do you have a little bit more caution factored into your operating income guidance number? And then are there penalties if there were if these projects were to be canceled that compensate you? Yes.
I mean the -- we're looking at projects that get pushed out projects that could be canceled waiting for different conditions the contracts are written that you -- under certain conditions you can make claims for cancellation and we would go ahead and make claims under those contracts as you reserved assets.
So we -- our guidance would have a view as to what the timing is likely to be on things whether they're -- whether they're incoming order rates as well as cancellation we can see what we booked and we can also see what likely delivery is.
But the North Sea is generally behind as you know there's a lack of some of the converters and installation everything is at a pinch.
And then within Germany there's a push and shove over liabilities in terms of who's ready for to receive the power and where is it going.
So this is a big complex thing.
So it moves weekly Tony and we would have that view.
And yes if we had a cancellation after reserving crews we would vigorously seek arbitration or other means to enforce our rights.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'm sorry just sneak one more question in.
Just on pricing with copper coming down sequentially into the quarter.
Did pricing get incrementally more competitive with the decline in metals? I think the metals we're caught as you know selling this product that we made at a higher copper cost and the market has been falling and we've talked about worldwide distributors some of them go hand -- go a little thinner on inventory or people who are going to book projects sort of watch the market when the market -- copper is falling thinking that prices could be lower and then as you know in the last month it started to bottom and come up a little bit.
Copper has moved up about a dime since the end of June.
But the -- we get paid on a net added value and you can think about that either on a LIFO basis or on an average cost basis but I would say pricing is always competitive.
We continue to pull costs out and I think some of our cost-out helped us in the quarter.
And as you know we've been deep into it in Europe and we have continuous improvement going on throughout the company on a global basis.
But I wouldn't say pricing has -- it's always fiercely competitive but I wouldn't say it's gotten worse.
We saw more pauses waiting for probably the copper market to stabilize for those parts of the market that are more distribution-oriented.
The utilities themselves have formulaic escalators and deescalators so they order when they're ready to order.
Your next question comes from Jack Stimac of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess following up on that maybe you could walk us through some of the maybe your gross profit assumptions going into the back half just with maybe kind of how we should think about the price cost.
I think you'd outlined an inventory reduction maybe how big that will be and the impact.
And then maybe the impact of mix going forward.
Yes Jack I guess without getting into the real details here I'd say coming back to what we were saying earlier I think in the second half the things that we're expecting on the let's say on the positive side or around the project business and some of the businesses in ROW which we specifically mentioned the Thai business we -- from a working capital perspective one we mentioned that we're -- we will -- were targeted to take out about $30 million of inventory in Q3 and that will have an impact on -- and all things being equal has an impact on absorption and sequentially can hurt the results.
But again everyday we're watching moving copper which has -- which can have an impact on us.
We're pleased to report in the second quarter despite the fallen copper prices that we were able to manage the business through to what we think is an -- in our mind a nice bottom line result.
So I guess that's the only way I'd summarize that.
I wouldn't go into anymore detail on this.
Yes we haven't really put in an assumption of a pricing decline.
It's volume and mix and obviously cost recovery or cost efficiency or continuous improvement.
But we're not actually calling a step down in that.
The pricing in Spain is tough enough that it's hard to make money but that's -- eventually people go away or they shutter capacity but it's I would say more of the same in our view right now in terms of gross margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe on kind of the operating expense line.
If we look sequentially I think volume was up 2% but SG&amp;A was up closer to 5%.
And I know you had a little bit of M&amp;A.
But what kind of runway -- run rate should we think about that looking right for the rest of the year? I mean is it going to stay in kind of this elevated level or should it kind of revert to a lower more normal level? Yes I would say we've been saying that it's $95 million plus or minus so I think that's the right way just to model it.
Just to clarify as you know we on a GAAP basis we reported $104 million but that includes a $600 million pension charge in there.
So $90 million for the quarter plus or minus $1 million of ongoing expenses related to M&amp;A activity so -- and then there's lots of puts and takes around the world.
So I would -- again I would say -- I would guide towards that $95 million plus or minus.
We as you know are continuing to focus on the cost obviously in [indiscernible] in our Europe and Med business where we're going at it very hard.
So that's how I would frame it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly for me just as you think about the acquisitions you've made and you kind of updated us a little bit on the expectations just with the movements and that all and just kind of where we are in the world economy has your outlook on these acquisitions changed at all? I mean have the accretion assumptions been altered at all because of what's been going on lately? Well I wouldn't say our view has changed.
Clearly there's more pause in the last months but there's strong synergies.
In the case of Alcan and best practice leveraging in the U.S.
I continue to believe is in the midst of a recovery in construction or a bottoming certainly which will help parts of their business.
We talked about the transmission business being spiky but generally in an uptrend over time on the grid in the U.S.
And then Colombia continues to do very well as an economy.
So I remain encouraged and enthusiastic about them and can't wait to get them completed.
We're also on an earlier question we're continuing to harvest our work in India where we built a new facility which is just coming online and you can see the grid issues they have.
Again how they get resolved that takes time and money and other things.
But of course Mexico and Peru so -- and then getting a return on our investment in the submarine cable area that is famed in oil and gas and wind alternative energy up in Germany are things we're concentrating on.
So I like our hand and yes it is choppy and for all the stuff you read in the headlines but these acquisitions should work well for us.
Your next question comes from Jeff Beach of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg and Brian in the second quarter you had about by my calculation a $14 million metal pound shortfall from your guidance give or take in a range.
Since volume is so important could you give us an estimate of in millions of pounds roughly of how much represented delayed projects in Brazil Thailand and some of the projects that you mentioned in Europe? And then give us a rough guess which I know is tough but a rough guess on what could have been a range of delayed purchases from distributors and some of the Rob Mill customers from falling copper prices versus a shortfall from actual economic weakness.
Yes there is a lot in there Jeff.
That's -- but taking maybe a best estimate out of your -- the pounds miss that you mentioned a lot of that is in the metal-intensive businesses so -- and if we put together by region I don't know maybe 80% of it in North America and the ROW businesses.
Remember on the project side while the volume -- the metals matter there's also the service components.
So there's a little less impact there.
So we really again back to -- I'd say the 80% of that plus or minus is in ROW and the North American businesses.
If we try to bifurcate it further that gets a little harder in terms of how much is generally weakness.
As we mentioned we saw a slight improvement say in North America on some of the OEM in the early cycle businesses.
So in that -- so from that perspective those businesses are rolling over a bit.
But beyond that I couldn't parse it further.
Yes North America Brian is -- the bulk of our miss was in the 2 areas not Europe which we already -- which we had -- obviously is an area in some turmoil.
But Europe was more or less in the zip code of where we thought they'd be.
And then the U.S.
its I would say general weakness versus our April expectations in industrial specialty.
The Datacom was a bit softer but not as much as the others.
Telephone cable was softer than expected.
In ROW it was mostly -- in most areas except the Philippines was good and -- but generally the metal-intensive business in ROW including transmission miss.
So I would say 80% 90% of the miss was North America and ROW versus our expectation.
And Europe was more or less where we thought they would be.
A lot of it -- as you know we sell rod out of ROW and if copper's falling or a customer could say "I'll wait until July take delivery let's see where she bottoms" as there's different price setting mechanisms.
So you can get into unit volume quickly if you're still talking about selling truckloads of rod which we do at a few locations.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up question so far a lot of the companies that I follow that have good industrial exposure and a lot of that industrial exposure is into the energy mining other markets have shown some pretty good strength.
What -- can you describe what you see happening -- I thought energy capital markets for example were still growing at a reasonably good pace.
What might make the sale of cables into those markets different than some other products? Well Jeff you're asking versus my expectations you weren't asking about like again we can maybe -- this is fairly detailed.
You'd need to look at where industrial was for example versus the prior quarter or versus prior year so I thought you were asking about what we -- what actually was the areas that missed from what we expected but they still may be relatively better or worse than where they were the prior quarter or prior year.
But no we should -- I try to read the same things you're reading and I guess people feel okay and we feel okay about it.
We don't see it necessarily accelerating right now Jeff.
But it's -- are you speaking now of U.S.
industrial demand is that where you're going? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes or North America yes.
I think that the -- I'd give -- I'd break it out a little bit to say for example in the mining or in gas sectors for our cable demand businesses those businesses remain -- as we said they're sources of stability and growing.
And again that's one where -- it's an area that we've talked about for almost a couple of years now.
I think where we've seen -- where we'd say that we've seen more of the softness would be on the base industrial cables that are more for lack of a better word more standard cables going through the industrial distribution call it.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Brent Thielman of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a few housekeeping questions.
Brian I was hoping you could help us with sort of a run rate for interest expense as these acquisitions close.
Yes Brent I would say it's -- we'll principally borrow on the U.S.
revolver so it's probably a couple of points of interest on a couple hundred million dollars so call it $4 million incremental on the interest expense.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I know you guys provided sales associated with the acquisitions.
I was hoping you could provide sort of what you think how the incremental volumes will be on an annual basis? I don't remember we would give the volumes I think what we would say is maybe we'd look at it at a different way which is to say that the business will broadly be about half copper and half aluminum.
As the overall company.
Excuse me as the overall company.
So that's -- as you know today we tend to be about 2/3 copper about 1/3 aluminum but that varies a bit.
Yes about that so I guess that's what I'd provide at this time Brent.
I don't want to get into how many million pounds Alcan or Procables so we don't own those companies yet.
And we'll decide how we'll talk about it once we own them.
But we'll be at a 50-50 copper to aluminum approximately mix of conductor weight worldwide once they're closed.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then lastly and I'm making some assumptions here.
But I guess how long before you think you can get kind of the margins associated with those business kind of consistent with your own business? We -- the marketplace sets the price.
We have industrial synergies with both companies but I don't want to put a stake in the ground.
We said they'd be accretive in the first year of operation.
Right.
Brent remember -- and so we've talked about this as really -- it's similar to our own operating margin in North America over time.
So I think clearly some of this will be predicated upon end market demand.
But as Greg said earlier we feel very very good about these transactions.
We may not get it exactly right in a single quarter in terms of the thing being hugely accretive but I think again we as we said we think that the businesses will be accretive in the first full year of operation and over time we can get those to our own average.
There are no further questions queued up at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Manager Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release from last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our third quarter.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on the company's fourth quarter 2012 outlook and an early view on 2013 followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in our call today.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook provided on July 31.
As you can see on Slide 5 we have excluded the impact of the Alcan Cable North America acquisition for ease of comparison.
With that I will turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len good morning.
We are pleased to report adjusted operating income exceeded our guidance range for the third quarter and adjusted EPS was within our range of expectations.
In ROW we reported better-than-expected operating results due to strong pre-election spending on housing and electrical infrastructure in Venezuela ongoing reconstruction efforts in Thailand and construction activity in the Philippines.
Our businesses in North America and Europe generally performed as expected despite the increasingly more challenging macro environment and the slowing industrial market in the U.S.
As you can see on Slide 5 other than the effective tax rate metal pounds sold net sales and inventory quantity movements were generally consistent with our expectations for the third quarter.
The company recorded $6.1 million or $0.12 per share of additional tax expense in the third quarter as the company's full year estimated effective tax rate was increased due to the expected full year earnings mix.
As a result the company recorded in the third quarter a catch-up adjustment for the first half of 2012 of $2.6 million or $0.05 per share of additional tax expense.
In addition the 45.9% effective tax rate in the third quarter also includes other incremental discrete tax items of approximately $3.5 million or $0.07 per share.
As a result the full year effective tax rate is expected to be around 36% up from our previously communicated range of 30% to 33%.
Turning to the individual segments.
First in ROW demand improvement was driven by construction activity and electrical infrastructure investment in Latin America particularly in Venezuela where spending ahead of the presidential election was robust.
Additionally ongoing reconstruction efforts in Thailand and healthy construction activity in the Philippines continued to drive demand for our products.
Also order rates for rod mill OEM customers and electrical distributors normalized as metal prices settled and began to rise over the latter part of the third quarter.
As a result third quarter adjusted operating income increased to $36.8 million ahead of management's expectations.
In North America volume was consistent with expectations across most business units in North America as seasonal demand patterns in the company's utility businesses following a strong second quarter coupled with an industrial slowdown broadly reduced demand for wire and cable products during the third quarter of 2012.
Demand for electrical infrastructure products including industrial and specialty cables particularly those used in natural resource extraction and transit applications remained relatively stable year-over-year.
Third quarter operating income of $26.8 million reflects the seasonally lower results in many of our businesses in North America following the strong performance of the company's telephone and electric utility business in the second quarter.
In Europe and Mediterranean increased submarine and land-based turnkey project activity was more than offset by the very weak domestic demand environment in Spain coupled with seasonal demand patterns including the August summer holiday period throughout much of Europe.
In addition the second quarter of 2012 reflected relatively strong demand for medium voltage cables in France and aluminum-based electric utility products in the Mediterranean.
The company's backlog was around $650 million for submarine and land-based turnkey cable projects at the end of the third quarter as the company continues to capture new projects in both submarine and land.
Other income for the third quarter of $9.7 million reflects the impact of $10.6 million of mark-to-market accounting gains on economic hedges which are used to manage currency and commodity risk on our project businesses globally and $900 000 of transactional currency losses.
Given the numerous currencies in which we transact business around the world we are pleased with the effectiveness of our hedging program as we continue to report foreign currency transactional gains and losses consistent with local norms during the quarter.
Before moving on to the next slide as you've seen in our press release last night the company has identified certain inventory-related accounting errors in 2 facilities located in Brazil and a third facility located in South Africa within the company's Rest of World segment where the operating units were erroneously computing cost of sales over the course of several years resulting in an understatement of cost of goods sold and an overstatement of ending inventory.
All 3 locations were utilizing the same system and related process which with respect to working process and finished goods incorrectly computed cost of sales.
In addition because the erroneous process was in place at one of the Brazilian facilities prior to the company's acquisition of Phelps Dodge International Corporation or PDIC in 2007 the company overstated inventory in its allocation of the purchase price among assets acquired resulting in an understatement of goodwill.
As a result of these errors and the related impact on its historical financial statements the company concluded that it should restate its consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years 2009 through 2011 the interim period during those years and the financial statements for the periods ended March 30 2012 and June 29 2012.
Due to the ongoing process of preparing revised financial statements for these prior periods the company has provided only selected financial data in its press release and this presentation.
For additional information please refer to the Form 8-K filed with the SEC yesterday.
On Slide 6 we have provided additional information on the Alcan Cable North American business and the related impact on our North American segment.
As you can see Alcan Cable North America further enhances our Electric Utility product offering and brings us new opportunities in construction cables where U.S.
housing data continues to show signs of improvement.
On a pro forma unit volume basis our North America segment becomes approximately 2/3 aluminum which is a meaningful mix shift as it was previously 2/3 copper.
Aluminum-based solutions are approximately 2/3 as electrically efficient as copper at approximately 1/3 the cost per pound.
Overall our integration plans are advancing quickly as we are already realizing synergies and continue to identify more opportunities.
Finally moving to Slide 7 while in a period of transition at the end of the third quarter our credit profile remains strong with the financial flexibility to fund our working capital requirements and capitalize on global opportunities.
On September 25 the company issued $600 million of 5.75% senior notes due in 2022.
Subsequent to the third quarter the company continued the balance sheet transition by calling all of the outstanding $200 million of 7.125% senior fixed rate notes due in 2017 on October 12 and retiring all of its outstanding $11 million of 1% senior convertible notes due in 2012 on October 15.
In addition the company may tender for all of the outstanding $355 million convertible notes due in 2013 or retain a portion of the proceeds to repay the 2013 convertible notes at maturity.
In the interim part of the proceeds from the issuance have been used to reduce the ABL borrowings to 0.
Lastly we are pleased to announce that the Board of Directors renewed the company's share repurchase program to repurchase up to $125 million of General Cable's common shares over the next 12 months.
We will utilize this buyback ability in the context of economic conditions as well as within prevailing market price of the common stock of the company regulatory requirements and alternative capital investment opportunities.
The company will not make any repurchases under the stock repurchase program before the restatement of the company's financial statements noted earlier is complete.
Under the previous and just expired authorization we repurchased $63.7 million or about 5% of the company's common shares over the past 12 months.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg for a recap of our fourth quarter expectations and full year business trends which are summarized on Slides 9 through 14.
Greg? Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
We certainly hope that all of you and your families are safe in the Northeast.
We're now just seeing sleet and snow hitting Northern Kentucky.
Including acquisitions revenues for the fourth quarter of 2012 are expected to be in the range of $1.62 billion to $1.67 billion on volume improvement of 15% to 18% sequentially.
Volume in our base business excluding acquisitions is expected to be flat to slightly down sequentially.
Including acquisitions adjusted operating income is expected to be in the range of $55 million to $65 million and adjusted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.40 to $0.50 per share.
The fourth quarter outlook reflects normal seasonal trends that are expected to be further burdened by the ongoing economic uncertainty in Europe recessionary conditions in Iberia and a slow recovery in the U.S.
coupled with a weakening industrial market.
OEM industrial and IT project spending in North America has stalled and has -- and generally declined recently.
Additionally wind applications have slowed considerably as tax incentives are set to expire at the end of the year.
Also we are managing through a number of scheduling changes in our offshore project business which is effectively moving production and installation into 2013 and 2014.
Unfortunately such changes are typical as the industry balances equipment capacity issues weather and platform readiness.
Despite these delays the undersea business performed well in the third quarter and we are pleased with our continued momentum as we have secured several new contracts.
Generally we expect these trends to be partially offset by construction activities in Central and South America and ongoing rebuilding efforts in Thailand.
In addition the acquisition of Alcan Cable North America is expected to contribute meaningfully in the fourth quarter as step-up purchase accounting adjustments are largely behind us.
As summarized on Slide 13 we reaffirm our full year volume guidance on our base business which is expected to grow in the low single digits year-over-year.
However we've lowered our range of expectations for adjusted operating income narrowing the range to $260 million to $270 million for 2012 which includes acquisitions.
Also we have narrowed our previously communicated guidance with respect to operating cash flows.
As you know movements in metal prices and demand volatility can have a material impact on our working capital requirements and operating cash flows.
Our capital spending for 2012 is now expected to be just above depreciation as work on our greenfield projects nears completion including the enhancement of our submarine installation capabilities.
As summarized on Slide 14 conditions in the early part of 2013 are expected to be very similar to 2012.
As we have communicated for a number of quarters we continue to expect a slow recovery in important end markets as there remains a great deal of uncertainty around growth prospects globally.
We also expect a very weak Iberian market and a weakened U.S.
industrial market.
One of the biggest long-term drivers of our business construction remains relatively flat in most major markets with the exception of the U.S.
which is showing some signs of improvement specifically in the U.S.
housing market.
On balance while our visibility remains limited we expect pockets of relative strength in cable demand types and North American aerial transmission projects oil and gas extraction and electrical infrastructure mining and construction in emerging markets.
We also remain focused on driving costs out of the business integrating recent acquisitions and capturing synergies and capitalizing on the various opportunities around the world including the approximately $1 billion of incremental revenue potential from recent acquisitions and greenfield investments.
Over a cycle these opportunities are expected to generate operating margins consistent with historical company averages or perhaps even better.
We're off to a fast start executing on our integration plans for Alcan Cable North America and Procables.
We're making excellent progress in realizing manufacturing logistics and purchasing synergies.
We're equally encouraged as the sharing of best practices has generated a number of other opportunities in the area of inventory management and safety among others.
We continue to anticipate closing Alcan Cable China before year end and Prestolite is expected to close in the next 30 days or perhaps sooner.
Prestolite has been in business for over 100 years.
The majority of its cables and assemblies are either proprietary products or have a print position on customer platform.
They operate a major wire-making facility in Arkansas as well as a harness assembly facility in Mexico.
Engineering and business development is based in the Detroit area.
They primarily serve the North American market serving transportation OEMs tier 1 wire harness manufacturers and distribution customers.
Prestolite's margins have been similar to General Cable's over the last several years and General Cable will pay a multiple generally consistent with other previously completed transactions.
We plan to fund the acquisition with cash.
Prestolite's performance has improved in 2012 driven in part by strengthening transportation end markets new platforms customers and products as well as cabling and systems density on modern vehicles.
Transportation OEMs are implementing alternative materials including those operating in higher operating temperatures electric or hybrid pulsion technologies enhanced communication systems and interconnectivity of vehicle management systems.
As a result the complexity and volume of wire and cable products consumed in new vehicles is expected to continue to increase.
Coupled with our existing global operations including the acquisition of Delphia earlier this year in Brazil this acquisition enhances our ability to support the needs of our multinational OEM customers in this rapidly evolving and growing market.
With more than $170 million of potential annual revenue and significant selling manufacturing and purchasing synergies Prestolite is expected to be accretive in the first full year of operation.
Greg Ulewicz currently President and CEO of Prestolite will assume a leadership position in General Cable aimed at rapidly leveraging new channels customers and know-how.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Well just I guess first on Alcan North America if I could get a little bit more detail in terms of just where you think the EBIT margin profile is currently.
I know where it was historically but where is it in the fourth quarter? Where do you think you can get that to as you move throughout 2013 if you still see strength in kind of their core markets? Yes.
Shawn the -- I would say that we've got a great start on the synergies which are extensive.
There's synergies in both directions tremendous know-how within Alcan itself.
They invented in many ways aluminum cable and forming and their Stabiloy brand is one of the best in the world and most widely known.
I would expect because of the synergies and frankly a -- the cables that they make that serve the construction market is quite strong that we'd expect them to be around the corporate average in that zip code of operating margin in the fourth quarter.
And that would basically be on the strength of the construction segment which would be above that.
The utility is not as strong as that and then they also very strategically make OEM products mechanical rod and strip which is aluminum transformation which again that's been a business that has some capacity limitations globally into North America so we're very happy about that strategically.
So all in all it's a business that is in North America in the $600 plus million revenue range and because of the strong industrial synergies we expect we've got to go ahead and do it as you know there a lot of their business are priced short cycle as well.
But we would expect our current thinking that they would be already operating at our operating margins with significant upside remaining and we will challenge ourselves hard internally.
Okay and I guess for the fourth quarter what is the volume contribution solely from Alcan? I know it was 20 million pounds last quarter? You'd expect it to be somewhere around 145 -- Yes so it'd be about 70 million aluminum pounds approximately Shawn for Q4.
Got you.
And then just as a follow-up it was a nice slide in the back in terms of just the greenfield facilities coming online.
How should we expect the profitability of those facilities is yes for '13? I'm guessing you start off at a lower level and get toward the corporate average but can you get there sometime during '13? Yes.
Look I would say Shawn we -- these greenfields which are time-consuming and resource-consuming take time as you would expect and I would not -- well one is our internal goal would be to exceed the corporate average because of some of the potential in these businesses or in the case of Germany the capital involved as well as the know-how but I would not -- I think just looking at them Mexico we've been at it.
We've got a good revenue base.
We have more capacity and we would expect as we get better at making products as well as the Mexican market begins to recover that over the course of next year the business has been improving but it's not yet accretive.
I'm hopeful that we would hit it next year but I would not forecast Mexico to yet be at the corporate average.
Brazil which has a lot of the specialty products which is part of our corporate strategy so Datacom control cables medium voltage cables all for the Brazilian industrial communications market that's quite busy.
And I would expect that that one could approach sort of the second half of the year some corporate averages.
But again none of this is easy as you're introducing new products with global teams.
India is a -- I'll recheck [ph] would not be at the corporate average we're still getting specified.
India is very slow again enormous potential but that one I would say would be dilutive this year coming in 2013.
Peru is -- should be approaching the corporate average.
South Africa coming -- in South Africa we have a very small business that makes cable in Durban and then a larger business that's taking product from all over the world in Johannesburg.
So in South Africa the greenfield is this small manufacturing operation.
I would say it wouldn't be there yet but getting there.
And Germany is nonperforming yet.
We're winning projects we're delivering projects.
The projects move as you can see the complexity in North shore North Sea but that one we should be able to contribute next year and the year after.
So net-net I wouldn't put it -- them all at the corporate average yet and the reason I ranged it from 150 to 300 is it takes time to win new customers and win market acceptance but the potential which we've worked hard over the last years is significant and we're setting stretch objectives for ourselves.
We're just early in the 2013 planning so I'm giving you really topside judgment as we haven't come back through all the plans and worked them hard and resourced them but broadly I would look for it to be better than last -- than 2012 but maybe collectively not yet at the average in 2013.
Okay.
That's so -- that's very helpful.
Yes the other thing I wanted to mention on the Alcan question was is within the utility obviously there's a very -- we think of utility as both distribution cables and transmission.
So within the utility there's a big chunk of transmission probably 1/2 of the utility revenues within Alcan and then there's a large distribution cable business as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Kure with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just along the same lines in the 2013 early look.
You talked about -- sort of give us some color on how you expect things by region: low growth in North America; deteriorating Europe; and then I think you said pockets of strength in ROW.
I guess what would that imply from an organic growth rate for the base business if we exclude the acquisitions and the greenfield? But what would be sort of your gauge of organic growth in the base business? Yes Tony we really haven't completed all that work.
I continue to see ROW as having a lot of opportunity.
As you know we're very strong as a company in the Americas which has been relatively stronger.
The U.S.
we'll watch the wind piece which is a piece of our business and we have seen an industrial slowdown which I think has been widely reported.
We're also seeing a slowdown in communications.
I think it's a pause around election and it's become -- and the fiscal cliff.
So people talk themselves into holding because demand is relatively CapEx so no one needs to spend now and I think you get that circular flow where there's a wait.
So I would look for the U.S.
to start opening up early next year no matter who wins but I think we've talked ourselves into caution industrially.
The -- Europe it's -- we watch it closely.
We think Spain has stepped down further.
We continue to help ourselves in other markets but Europe is in -- is several years behind the U.S.
So we're -- other than our project business which continues to get some stretch Europe looks like more of the same but fragile.
The U.S.
I think the utility spending will pick up because as you build houses you need to take possibly telephone lines drop lines as well as certainly electrical power to those homes plus cable is consumed on the job site.
And in some cases we make cables that go into the home itself.
So I think the U.S.
story is a bit mixed with the construction starting to move up and then the overhang with houses in the market coming down.
Latin America feels good and we've been quite good in parts of Southeast Asia.
So net-net Tony I'm thinking Europe more of the same with a little bit of downside risk; the U.S.
a slow start in some segments but housing will help carry broadly; and then Rest of World generally somewhat better as you can see.
In our fourth quarter we expect Rest of World to relatively outperform from an operating margin standpoint and from a growth standpoint.
Brian do you want to add anything? No I think that's -- yes so I think in terms of just putting hard numbers on that we're not prepared to do that yet for -- as we think about 2013.
Look for our -- we'll update this with our -- we'll give a stronger view when we next report our quarterly earnings in the fourth quarter and sharpen that view for you.
Okay I guess just to finalize that point I guess I mean would it be fair to say you expect some growth on your base business organically? Yes I would say Tony we certainly -- we see the potential with the things we help ourselves with or looking at the best we can see in the markets but yes I would expect some growth but it's premature to be more specific than that.
We certainly see opportunity but obviously we've got to go do it and we're making a judgment on what world we're going to see 3 and 6 months from now.
Research Division</strong> Great and I appreciate that's helpful color.
And then on the fourth quarter outlook you indicated some scheduling changes in the turnkey and land-based projects.
And I think Greg you alluded to that -- those push-outs.
So do those normally push several quarters out? I think you actually mentioned 2014 also but then you're sort of back filling that with new orders.
So would those push-outs hit and the ones that did occur would they hit in the first half of 2013 or could you maybe talk about the timing around those? Yes again this is primarily submarine somewhat less so land.
The land is complex.
The land is not -- it's better known science and there's a more robust supply of product.
With the submarine side 2 major factors: one is the converters and the platforms the manufacturers are at supply constraints.
So they're oversold there's -- in some -- for some critical products.
We also have weather most of this work is in the Baltic and North Sea and that more or less stops in November with some maybe windows narrow windows in the winter but then starts again in the spring.
So if you missed the fall you're kicked into the spring but I would say the -- as you've been probably reading there's everything from German discussions on what to do with the power how to get it down south where they need it who pays for it does it show up in the utility bills? There's risk sharing between the wind park operators and the utilities who have to take that wind park power to the shore and move it down.
So the Germans are figuring that out.
There is an enormous amount of work that continues to be out there but I think they're sorting through a little bit their own public policy and energy policy issues as well as there's a shortage broadly of supply.
So if there's not a platform we can't hook it up and people don't want to leave the cable in the water generally if they can avoid it not connected.
So we're part of a very complex supply chain and it moves around which we continue to deal with Tony but we haven't seen stuff go away.
It's just sorting through it and the Germans seem to remain committed to win and of course you're seeing that in other markets including the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just couple of housekeeping items.
If you could quantify the purchase accounting impact in the third quarter and then what the expectation is maybe on the early read if you can for a tax rate in 2013? Yes I would -- I guess Tony on the purchase accounting I guess you maybe squared the earlier question around our expected profitability of the Alcan business with synergies which is about the corporate average.
And as we said in the third quarter the business after purchase accounting contributed basically a de minimis amount.
So -- and as we said the business was worth about -- I think about $50 million of revenue in the third quarter.
On the tax rate I'd say it's too -- it's a little early to say.
I would say we will face some natural upward pressure just simply because of the addition of some businesses which are more biased towards the U.S.
and Canadian markets.
So again I would say we'll -- I would expect it will migrate let's say beyond that somewhere in that 33% to 36% area but we'll give more specific guidance when -- again when we've firmed everything up here and over the next few weeks in sort of weeks/months.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Yes on the Alcan acquisition what percentage of that revenue stream is sort of selling on a short-cycle basis versus contractual arrangements? Yes well within Alcan so it's a -- call it a $600-plus million business in U.S.
and Canada in Mexico and then there's a 100-plus in China approximately.
Within the -- we haven't closed on China yet but in the U.S.
there's probably 1/3 of it is priced short cycle.
It's priced against to distribution for [ph] jobs related to construction in the U.S.
both commercial industrial and residential.
And then within utility which is about 1/2 the business that business has both 1 to more than 1-year contracts say 1 to 3 plus then you're bidding also in there.
There's bids against specific transmission projects or even sales to distributors but I would say the utility this is an educated guess is probably 1/2 contractual and 1/2 kind of a bid market but for much bigger projects and that would be primarily tied to transmission but also to distribution in part.
And then there's a OEM business principally mechanical rod electrical rod and strip all aluminum and most of that is contractual and that's oh perhaps 20% of the business or so and we're calling that rod.
When we report it it's really products sold on an annual or multiyear contract to customers.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Rest of World segment operating margins were as high as I think we'd seen in quite some time.
Is that mostly mix related and sort of how should we think about that going forward? Well we've had -- in the Rest of the World we're seeing improvements in Thailand.
I think in Chile we continue to see a introducing new products to Brazil and while some of the transmission work in Brazil is in a pause they are -- we are strongly building capability against the -- against all the constructions going on around the World Cup Olympics et cetera and just Brazil generally.
Central America remains good.
Philippines as I said and Thailand have performed well.
Venezuela was quite strong and it again is an interesting place.
So it fits us nicely from a young population natural resource.
Obviously it's a complex place but that has been quite strong particularly prior to the election which Chavez won but they went through a strong series of projects for housing for people and they're deep into a reconductoring of the country because obviously their electrical grid is not strong.
So Venezuela has been a very strong participant.
We're very excited of course about Procables in Colombia which we think is going to be a terrific market which we closed October 1.
So broadly Rest of World our challenge is to just keep driving through the greenfields and acquisitions and keep improving them but we're in good markets and they've generally fared better than certainly some of the developed world.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just trying to getting my head wrapped around the guidance for Q4 the higher sequential revenues and volumes you're looking for.
I guess is there something specific such as the inventory reductions that leads you to guide to the lower sequential profit or would you say it's more reflective of just some of the uncertainties and volatility in the market right now? Well we're being -- as we think about it our core business is actually weakened from what we had anticipated in the -- as we thought about the year some months ago.
So we've seen the U.S.
weaken specifically particularly around communications cables IT spending industrial spending.
We've also seen a pause of U.S.
distribution generally that they've become cautious.
So we're pulling down inventory quite hard which is obviously that you don't absorb that inventory into your cost and we're essentially unloading the factory.
So hopefully we'll have a nice start back next year but right now we are cautious as our customers are cautious.
We've also seen Europe see some step-down further in Spain in terms of demand.
Pricing is not good in much of Europe and we've seen a push out of our -- of some of the contracts for delivery that we thought under a percentage of completion we would deliver in the fourth quarter and that -- some of that's been pushed out.
So the net of all that is on the business excluding Alcan and Procables we've seen a $10 million to $15 million step down in our expectations around operating income.
We've also seen copper run down from the $3.70 level down to -- down more than $0.20.
So the markets are unsettled and our customers some of the distributors are cautious particularly in the U.S.
and I would say Europe generally.
So that has gotten tougher than it appeared some months ago and we just want to be sure we have the right inventory profile and -- but we've seen generally the U.S.
reduce from its expectations over the last couple of months as we're getting feedback from our customers and incoming orders and we've seen Europe primarily in Spain and North Sea deviate.
The rest of Europe Spain -- or France is more or less on plan and North Africa we also manage Portuguese-speaking Africa from Portugal and Angola that region is steady and decent.
So net-net we're down in the base business but we expect a very fast start from Alcan and a good ramp up with Procables which are partially offsetting that step-down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could sneak one more in sort of bigger picture how are you feeling about your current sort of portfolio mix of copper and aluminum? Is it your preference to get a little bit more exposure to aluminum or do you feel like you're kind of where you want to be right now? Aluminum is interesting when you have these ratios of copper to aluminum cost.
We are -- aluminum is a smaller piece of the overall global market.
So its natural position is less than our mix.
We have seen it do well in certain areas.
Again aluminum is less dense than copper.
It's 1/2 the weight for the same connectivity but requires a 60% larger cross section.
When you get through all the math it is very attractive where local specs allow or it's the decision of the say industrial end-user but it's very effective in some areas.
You would not put aluminum say in crowded ducts in cities.
It's not approved say for U.S.
construction cable inside a building because of connector issues that's used in other markets.
But broadly we had been a little -- broadly 1/3 of our historical business has been aluminum over time.
We -- if you look at it from a macro standpoint aluminum is probably in part because of the high copper cost over the last say 5 years has probably picked up share against copper for certain applications.
And with Alcan we really get the guys who figured out how to sell aluminum over a huge part of history and in some respects invented that business.
So hugely complementary to our aluminum positions elsewhere in the world and I don't have a specific goal to have more aluminum than copper.
What we want to do is have the right products for our customers but we have noticed on the margin a swing over to aluminum for those applications where it's the users' choice.
Specifications for the utilities usually are slower to change or even National Electric Code so each country is different.
But I'm very very satisfied with our profile and we already have an enormous exchange between Alcan technical and manufacturing experts with experts in the rest of the world where aluminum is used extensively.
We have a major aluminum facility in Algeria and in Spain.
And again the U.S.
we had an enormous aluminum position in the U.S.
We just didn't have all the know-how that Alcan has.
So very very complementary and I like our hand and we can move into markets as we choose with the know-how that we currently have in-house which is high.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So I want to hit the guidance understand the profitability outlook a little bit more.
But maybe first when you talk about Alcan and I think you said profitability the operating margin should eventually reach the company average.
I'm assuming most of the -- well 2 parts to the question.
Does the mix cost of goods versus SG&amp;A look similar to the overall business? And then and maybe you said it but where does more of the opportunity lie as you move forward? Yes a great question.
The rod and strip business is interesting.
It is strategically interesting because melting capacity in the rod has generally gotten tight.
As you know in many markets we are vertically integrated into the either copper melting or rod business or the aluminum where there isn't domestic supply.
Alcan came with a facility in Canada that does that.
We have other supply relationships that we value.
They have directed some of that facility into doing other things such as mechanical rod for OEM applications and also they have a strip business.
That business is -- I would not expect inherently -- the return of capital will be just fine.
From an operating margin standpoint it's -- the value added is -- well again if there's no supply then there's a lot of value added but broadly I would not expect that to be -- other than a high return business it should be more like our raw -- our other raw business over time meaning low to mid- single-digit operating margins.
The building wire business is priced short cycle.
It's a very important business in the U.S.
There are people who are in the business but they're very good at it.
They actually engineer and design and point out the advantages of their solutions.
That one I would say has a lot of potential particularly as the U.S.
housing recovers and I would expect -- and it is performing strongly for us and that one again will be tied to the construction cycle but I think we're beginning of an up-cycle and I think that could be accretive from a margin standpoint to what we do.
But again we don't have 5-year contracts in that business; we're pricing to the market.
The utility is a mixture of existing customer relationships that have contracts from 1 to 3 years.
"Contracts" is the wrong word.
It's pricing agreements and then you're bidding against the transmission business as well where they're a leader we were not and that transmission business has picked up substantially over the last 5 years from where it was on the whole reconductoring of America.
So broadly we would have internal objectives to -- we talk our about business over a cycle if this cycle -- if we're correct about the recovering U.S.
construction cycle and about a reconductoring of the U.S.
I would hope Alcan would be nicely accretive both from an EPS standpoint and perhaps even from a margin standpoint as we are heading back out of the trough.
The China operation is selling directly to end users.
It is profitable.
There are Chinese competitors we've established.
We don't own that business yet but Alcan has established itself as a reference and has sort of invented that business in China but China can change quickly.
But for us it's very interesting because it represents 100 direct salesmen so we can bring other products in including those made by our minority ventures where we have a position in 2 other facilities in China.
So China we expect to contribute but it is -- we expect more competition but we think we can do more things in China with other General Cable products.
So net-net internally we have high expectations for Alcan over a cycle.
There's some very high synergies.
There's some very interesting strategic applications of their rod mill and their know-how.
So we're not capping the opportunity and in fact this company in the last cycle say '06 '07 '08 was extremely profitable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the comments about construction are you specifically talking Greg about the residential side? I know you've had some positive things to say there.
I'm just curious about what you're seeing on the non-res side as well? The non-resi is sort of -- we watched the National Electrical Manufacturer's Association the economist Don Leavens does a nice job.
They've been pretty good on this.
They see housing resi which is a driver of our construction cable business in Alcan picking up but it's not the majority part of the business.
It still depends upon selling aluminum into the commercial and industrial side and that is -- it's sort of is floundering meaning it's sort of more of the same.
It's relatively flat and I think you can see the FW Dodge data and that kind of thing.
They're -- we see the government slowing down manufacturing has slowed down commercial is sort of picking up slightly hospital health care is slightly picking up.
I'm just looking at the different attributes of the model.
They take apart colleague street [ph] communication but net-net I'm not suggesting that in that segment we're seeing a turnaround.
It seems to be pushing sideways with -- but we are able to sell the product Stabiloy against competitive products and they've been doing that successfully in a flattish non-resi overall market which obviously impacts all of General Cable because our products are used early cycle and late cycle.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
And Brian maybe this is for you.
Just again on the Q4 guidance and just trying to understand this a little bit.
I just looked at a bridge and you did about $35 million operating income in Q4 of last year.
And I think you called out $20 million in price cost $7 million from Thailand.
I'm assuming -- well we'll just start from a base there.
You add those to the $35 million and you're getting to about $62 million so toward the high end of the range.
I think you said volume is flat.
Price cost Greg I think you referenced copper volume $3.50 to -- or $3.70 to $3.50.
Talked about some inventory reduction and you talked about the addition of some Alcan profitability.
I'm just trying to bridge that gap there trying to see why you wouldn't see your expected profit a little bit higher.
I feel like there's enough puts to go with the takes to see that number a little higher.
I'm just trying to connect those dots.
Sure Matt I'll be somewhat reserved in terms of specificity around the prior years because of where we are as we mentioned in the restatement process.
But I guess what I would say the -- you're correct in the sense that in the fourth quarter of last year we had that meaningful headwind from that -- from the falling -- the impact of the drastic fall in copper prices near the end of the third quarter which hurt our profitability.
But I guess and I would really reinforce the broad trends that Greg mentioned I think the European business in the fourth quarter as we mentioned the project push-outs obviously hurt the profitability and the continuing very weak and somewhat worsening conditions in Iberia hurt the European profitability.
And I think and the other piece of that then would be the North American businesses as we said on the industrial space and some of the IT sort of related products.
So I mean I would say those -- whether it's -- just from both a trend perspective and current trends and versus the prior year those are really the greatest -- the largest pieces.
Research Division</strong> So is there -- I think you said organically volume would be flat to down slightly.
So is there some kind of mix impact that I'm missing there? Because it sounds like -- I hear what you're saying on those trends but overall it sounds like your volume's going to be flattish.
So what am I missing from a volume perspective? I hear those trends that sounds like they're offsets.
Yes you have that and then you have as we said we're expecting to take out more inventories.
So we took out about $30 million in the third quarter which we think we'll double that in the fourth quarter.
I think the other important part of the mix as we mentioned in the Rest of World segment we had a very good quarter in the Venezuelan business and that will step down.
We expect that that will step down in the fourth quarter.
So that can -- that's also as we move sequentially a headwind in terms of the operating results.
In fact if you look at what we are getting sequentially we believe we're getting better in other markets in around [ph] Chile the Philippines and Thailand specifically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you said at this point it looks like $60 million will take care of the -- any inventory issues based on the trends you're seeing today.
Yes I don't know that I would say issues.
I mean I think it's just -- partly it's our -- somewhat of our normal -- it's part of our normal seasonal reduction as well as some reaction to just our sense that some of the businesses are slowing.
Distributors are cautious so we can see they're thinking about their year end they can flex around inventory replenishment points.
Each distributor's different but there is caution.
I don't yet think the U.S.
is headed into a recession but there's a great deal of caution around this quarter.
Obviously Europe has become a drag and people are worried about China.
But broadly I just see it backing up through where there is caution flags we want to be right.
And December is always a tricky month because you have everything from plant shutdowns to holidays to end of the year either people with budget or without budget or in caution.
So those aren't excuses but I think in this environment it makes particular sense to just be cautious.
So we're watching inventory closely.
We may not be right in terms of what we do but it's our best look.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just going back to Matt's question just previously.
I think he was kind of trying to get at you do say volume next quarter is expected to be flat to down sequentially on an organic basis.
So I just want to make sure you're talking about I understand on the negative side project push-outs worsening conditions in Europe a weaker U.S.
some slowdown on these -- in the Brazilian transmission projects.
So what are the offsets there in terms of where are you seeing growth? Is it this -- is this what you mentioned Chile Philippines and Thailand growth that offsets some of those weaker markets to get to flat to slightly down sequential revenues? You're talking about sequentially now? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sequential you were talking -- you said unit volumes so metal pounds sold I'm sorry you said would be flat to slightly down sequentially in the fourth quarter.
So I'm just trying to get at some of the positives.
If you're seeing these negatives which I understand where's the offset coming from? Sure sure.
The last part of that you're correct that it's really in some of these markets in Chile the Philippines.
Thailand continues to be a very good story in terms of the turnaround this year.
As we said the North American transmission is also a very good very positive impact as we continue to move throughout the year.
I don't know that I would add much to that Noelle.
Yes well we just -- we would see Chile stepping up as Brian said; Central America picking up in the fourth quarter; the -- Thailand again we have to go ahead and do this but Thailand picking up.
We see Venezuela stepping down but Venezuela has some great -- continues to have great potential it's just they went through a very busy period and perhaps we'll be pleasantly surprised.
We would see the -- a bit of a pickup in certain of the U.S.
segments especially around perhaps specialty but generally the U.S.
is slowing down especially cable is picking up from a profit standpoint.
But broadly the U.S.
is coming down other than we see our OEM business sort of hanging in which is -- again it's more of the not at a significant level.
Alcan is going to contribute nicely in Europe.
It's sort of the kind of general step down in most of the businesses particularly around Spain.
And we're pulling inventory out.
We have some projects push-out.
So I would say most of the strength is really around Rest of World segments as well as some parts of the Europe and U.S.
in the fourth quarter versus the third.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I have a couple of questions on Iberia.
In the past I think you've expressed confidence that you could achieve profitability there in spite of some of the weakness that you were seeing.
So a few questions.
One were you profitable in that region in the third quarter.
Second given the deterioration in the Spanish domestic market is this still something you think you can achieve? And then can you just give us an update on the run rate of sales that are remaining in Spain at this point? I would say from a profitability standpoint again as we've talked over the last couple of years it continues to -- the business can be very volatile depending upon the trends in the country.
I would say the business contributed.
It continues to contribute and contributed in the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter I would say given the trends it feels a little like it did last year where you have the end markets softening and the business slowing.
So I think we'll be back to sort of a breakeven to potentially sort of dilutive just for the quarter.
Longer-term as we said the majority of what we're making there about 70% we're now exporting or sending on to other countries to go into higher-voltage products.
But we're closely -- the domestic market is obviously hugely depressed still down maybe half of what it once was.
We've taken on a permanent basis and in round numbers $40 million of cost out of the business and we'll continue to watch very closely the operations on the ground and what we might do if -- it's hard to see but what we might do if it gets materially worse.
But Noelle it's -- they're about oh around $125 million a quarter or something like that and in there is a lot of exports out of Spain so that's what's reported in exiting those facilities and it's -- the pricing is Spain is down in some segments more than 50% say around construction.
We've introduced a whole bunch of 0 halogen cables for the European market.
We're selling oil and gas cables hard from Spain and of course we're also in Portugal which is a smaller business but they're all operating flirting around -- if you take out the redundancy cost for the terminations and downsizing it's been flirting around negative -- 0 operating margin kind of thing Noelle maybe slightly negative sometimes slightly positive depending on the season.
That's despite all the cost we've taken out.
It's -- again there is -- the Spanish domestic market is a fraction of itself with almost no utility spending almost no construction spending and then of course we're now dependent on selling primarily outside the Spanish market.
We continue to also just watch our customers and the consolidation that goes on there.
And we've seen a lot of stress among other suppliers.
So it's a live equation.
We think we have the right envelopes.
We think we can be profitable.
Obviously we're doing better than a lot of industrial companies in Spain or even Europe generally who could be loss-making but we're constantly trying to pull cost out -- than some are.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Martina and I'll be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Director Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued this morning.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
Due to the timing and final preparation of the company's restated financial statements we have provided select financial data in today's materials.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our fourth quarter results followed by comments on the company's outlook for the first quarter.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide additional comments on 2013 including full year business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I want to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook.
With that I will turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning.
We are pleased to report that our adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter was slightly above our previous communication provided a couple of weeks ago.
As we discussed then and as shown on Slide 5 typical seasonal patterns in the fourth quarter were partially offset by strong contributions from our recent acquisitions housing-related utility and construction product shipments in the U.S.
a record level of quarterly metal pounds sold in our legacy General Cable transmission business and strong results in Asia Pacific driven by construction and electrical infrastructure investments.
Overall global unit volume was in line with our expectations for the fourth quarter.
Metal pounds attributable to our recent acquisitions more than offset typical seasonal declines in many of our base businesses.
Net sales were slightly below our expectations principally due to lower average copper costs during the fourth quarter and a slightly greater mix of aluminum-based product shipments.
The company's effective tax rate for the full year was adversely impacted by valuation allowances recorded against losses in certain European business units and one-off tax charges in connection with the legal entity restructuring to integrate Alcan Cable Canada.
Due to the timing of these charges and the mechanics of the quarterly computation under applicable tax rules the tax benefit was recognized in the fourth quarter.
We have removed this tax benefit so as to present the fourth quarter at an adjusted effective tax rate of 38.5%.
For 2013 the company expects its full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 36%.
Moving to Slide 7 our credit profile remains strong with the financial flexibility to fund our working capital requirements and capitalize on global opportunities.
In the fourth quarter the company continued its balance sheet transition by calling all of its outstanding $200 million of 7.125% senior fixed rate notes due in 2017 and retiring all of its outstanding $11 million of 1% senior convertible notes due in 2012 using part of the proceeds from the September 2012 $600 million issuance.
In addition once the financial restatements are complete the company will consider whether to tender for all of the outstanding $355 million convertible notes or retain a portion of the proceeds [ph] to repay the 2013 convertible notes at maturity later this year.
In the interim part of the proceeds from the issuance have been used to reduce the ABL borrowings to 0.
Net debt for the fourth quarter was unchanged from the end of the third quarter.
The company made no common share repurchases during the fourth quarter under its $125 million share repurchase program authorization which expires at the end of October of 2013.
The company will utilize this buyback authority in the context of economic conditions as well as the then-prevailing market price of the common stock of the company regulatory requirements and alternative capital investment opportunities.
The company will not make any repurchases under the stock repurchase program before its restated financial statements are filed with the SEC.
On Slide 8 we are pleased to report that operating cash flow and free cash flow exceeded management's expectations for 2012.
Efficient management of working capital over the second half of the year resulted in $206 million of operating cash flow in the fourth quarter and $289 million for the full year of 2012.
Overall the company's ability to consistently reduce costs as well as execute on its strategy of geographic diversification and product portfolio expansion has resulted in the third consecutive year of adjusted operating income in 2012 without the benefit of a meaningful and widespread global construction recovery.
On Slide 10 you'll see our expectations for the first quarter of 2013.
Unit volume in the first quarter of the year is generally lighter due to the typical seasonal factors such as weather-related limitations on construction activity and typical holidays in ROW.
As a result we expect the first quarter to be the weakest of the year with a sharp improvement in the second quarter as construction activity accelerates.
Additionally the Alcan Cable North America business is a bit more leveraged toward construction activity which is an element of the sharp seasonal improvement expected in the second quarter.
Overall we expect to report adjusted EPS in the range of $0.22 to $0.32 per share excluding the impact of the recent Venezuela currency devaluation which is expected to result in a onetime charge of $42 million or $0.82 per share principally due to the re-measurement of the local balance sheet.
Before turning the call over to Greg to provide some comments on 2013 full year business trends I wanted to briefly touch base on the restatement of our financial statements.
The company intends to file its restated financial statements this week.
We have completed our internal review conducted with the assistance of outside counsel and a forensic accounting firm.
The previously disclosed estimates of understated cost of sales and overstated inventory will not change materially.
The company has determined that a substantial portion of what was previously believed to be system-related accounting errors in Brazil was actually theft of inventory.
We believe a portion of this may be covered by insurance and we have initiated the claims process.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Thank you Brian.
Good morning everyone.
Our guidance has not changed since our last discussion 2 weeks ago.
We expect operating income in the range of $300 million to $340 million on 1.4 billion to 1.5 billion metal pounds sold assuming average year-to-date metal prices.
That said if you turn to Slide 13 I want to provide a few thoughts on some of the demand drivers for 2013.
Overall for 2013 we are expecting a volume improvement in North America and ROW driven in large part by volume attributable to acquisitions which collectively are expected to contribute in the range of 350 million to 400 million pounds in 2013.
We expect a meaningful seasonal step-up in the second and third quarters of the year principally due to the Alcan Cable North American business which is fairly construction-driven.
At the midpoint of our guidance volume in our base business in North America and ROW is expected to improve approximately 4% to 8% -- 4% and 8% respectively principally driven by electricity grid expansion and reinforcement and construction-related spending.
In the Europe and Med business demand is not expected to change materially in 2013.
Overall volume is expected to somewhat be skewed toward the second half as construction activity ramps up and metal-intensive aerial transmission projects in Brazil begin to shift.
On Slide 15 we have provided some information on our construction-related business in North America.
As we've said before residential and nonresidential construction activity affects nearly all of our product categories in some way.
However there are certain products that are more directly linked to construction spending which we've provided on a pro forma basis including Alcan Cable North America.
As you can see construction-driven product demand has started to improve but remains well off 2006 peak levels.
The operating leverage in the business remains intact and is further -- and has been further enhanced with the acquisition of Alcan Cable North America as reflected by the 2006 pro forma North America adjusted operating income which is roughly double our pro forma results in 2012.
Moving on to Slide 16 in Europe and Med we anticipate these businesses to contribute 3% to 6% of consolidated operating income in 2013 despite our submarine turnkey project business operating around breakeven for the year.
As illustrated on Slide 17 we maintained a sizable backlog in both submarine and land-based turnkey projects of approximately $650 million at the end of 2012.
Overall growth prospects over the next several years are encouraging for both land and submarine despite recent results experienced in our submarine project business.
Actions taken over the last couple of years have reduced our ongoing cost base and our pan-European go-to-market strategy is providing better market coverage improved logistics and plant optimization all of which we expect to help offset some of the continuing weakness.
Finally on Slide 18 and 19 we expect mid-single-digit GDP growth rates on average in ROW supported by investments in construction energy and infrastructure throughout the region.
Specifically in Brazil spending ahead of the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016 as well as government-sponsored programs such Lights for All and My House - My Home are expected to drive demand for the company's products in 2013.
In addition the company expects the next phase of major aerial transmission projects' products to start shipping in the second half of this year.
Overall we are well positioned to benefit from global growth trends energy infrastructure-related investments and improving construction activity.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who'll assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
I was wondering just if you could help me out in terms of the M&amp;A contribution to volumes if you can break that up into Rest of World and North America for me.
Yes.
Shawn from a volume perspective you're talking specifically around 2012 Shawn? Around 2012 and 2013 just so I can...
Okay.
So yes so the volume in 2012 -- just bear with us one second.
Let's call it in the range of 100 million pounds broadly let's call 90% of that in North America.
And then as we look to next year we're looking at an improvement there sort of at the midpoint say of about 275 million pounds with a little more mix towards ROW because of  we pull their full year of Alcan China and Procables.
And then I guess just a few brief follow-ups.
Venezuela you guys are ahead of the curve and so we saw the devaluation.
How does that change I guess the $20 million you had previously talked about? Is that included in the number now? And just any update on kind of the costing questions from the last call? Yes okay.
Shawn there was no change in terms of the base the 300 to 340 in that headwind.
We believe that even though there's that -- the devaluation has an impact our ability to do -- to manage the business locally will allow us to deliver as we thought we would.
So no change to the base guidance.
The only change is the onetime charge that we announced just after the release 2 weeks ago for re-measuring the balance sheet which we'll call out in the first quarter and that we referenced in this earnings release.
Okay.
But I guess net-net the way I'm looking at it is potentially maybe you have a little bit more wiggle room since the devaluation was less than you would have anticipated? Again yes and no Shawn.
I would say when we talked a couple weeks ago we were saying it's just -- it's very tough to give a very direct linear sort of reaction as if the currency had devalued 50% as it did or 100% so we had sort of -- there's enough moving parts.
So I guess long story short we're comfortable with the guidance and the headwind is consistent with what we thought year-over-year '12 to '13.
Got you.
Then 2 final clarifications.
On an adjusted basis what was SG&amp;A for the fourth quarter? And then what do you expect interest expense to be on an adjusted basis for the March quarter? Yes Shawn on the SG&amp;A side let us come back to you on that one.
I guess on the interest expense Shawn I would say from a -- for the first quarter on an adjusted basis we should be at about $25 million of net interest in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Wesolowski from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Is the expected 2013 operating income contribution for the 3 acquisitions in aggregate commensurate with the share volume? I would say it's in the range of -- I would say the thinking is sort of in the same range Rich meaning that the -- as we said on the volumes the increase in the base business is low single digits.
So I think in the base business it's probably that same range.
And then we of course also have significant -- we believe a significant benefit or improvement coming with the acquisition as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And would you comment on the risk to your outlook in ROW specifically with regards to Brazil? It seems from the headlines and from the page in your slide deck here there's an overwhelming number of project plans.
But on the other -- we always read about delays in permitting and getting a lot of the jobs off the ground.
Yes Rich we -- Brazil I think you're right to think that those projects are -- we had very little project volume in the first quarter and then it's -- moves up materially.
It moves up in the second quarter and then substantially in the third and fourth.
So we actually see the transmission line business in Brazil actually above last year but well below 2011.
So it is lumpy.
We also have introduced a whole series of new products which are in the ramp-up stage.
And overall all of that is the frenzy around the construction.
So I would say Rich I feel that Brazil with the projects you always have your eye on that.
On the other hand I've just come back from Venezuela and I feel great about where we are there.
It's obviously a difficult environment but a fine team.
And our first quarter was burdened by really implementation of a new law which basically said people need to take their vacation and can't work through it so the country was largely shut down through well into February.
But we see despite the devaluation generally strong conditions for this year.
So I would think of those 2 as somewhat balancing.
Elsewhere in ROW it's -- broadly looks similar to where we've been and we're working hard on just bolting hard the new greenfields and brownfields and so we feel okay.
But Brazil I would say is a little trickier with the projects offset probably with Venezuela and activity elsewhere improving brownfield and greenfield performance.
LLC</strong> Lastly if you haven't mentioned already are there going to be any large inventory swings in the first half? Not -- Rich not -- probably in order of magnitude up to say $50 million kind of range.
So we didn't call those out in our guidance.
LLC</strong> Okay.
For a very involved quarter this is an exceptional slide deck.
Thanks Rich.
Just want to come back sorry to the question that Shawn Harrison asked before the Q4 SG&amp;A on -- excluding adjustments would have been around $115 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Anthony Kure from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just got a couple of quick more questions on Venezuela.
Greg you mentioned you just came back there and then you alluded to the fact that that period of vacation mandatory vacation ends in February.
I guess if you can just expand on that a little bit is -- was it a law that was passed and that's what's giving you confidence that that should abate -- that impact should abate in the second quarter? Yes the country was just -- we made money in Venezuela but much less than we did prior year because the country really will -- only operated fundamentally for -- well didn't operate for -- depending on what customer but 5 or 6 weeks through January and February with the extended Christmas and statutory holiday.
So this was basically saying you can't pay people overtime for them to work through their vacation.
The demand seems good and -- in Venezuela.
And as a result we'll have to ship more and meet that demand beginning in March and then through the year.
So broadly demand hasn't disappeared and we have a fair amount of production capacity.
We always are looking to get metal and raw materials imported in the country but I think that because of the criticality of what we produce that will happen.
So broadly I feel good about where we have planned for the year which as said earlier included a devaluation and there may even be some upside given the strength of demand.
Research Division</strong> Actually you sort of led into my second question.
But with the demand being colored as such relatively positive and the devaluation will this now provide you or do you think that it'll provide you a opportunity to "catch up" on price commensurate with the devaluation? In other words I think and correct me if I'm wrong last time there was a devaluation the impact was minimal because you were able to reprice pretty rapidly.
Is that the -- do you -- are you factoring that in first into your devaluation that you're still going to be able to reprice? Or does your $20 million sort of allowance on the impact on your operating income assume no catch-up on the repricing of products there? Well certain products are required -- they're under an element of price control and the government obviously has an interesting issue with devaluation.
And then we have to pay for these products and pay more in local currency terms for all the things we do.
So you have a stew that's brewed between price control and non-price-controlled elements.
So yes we -- and then you have orders that were entered under old price conditions that you have to go ahead and honor.
So net-net we should be able to -- it's -- the market we believe will strengthen for many product areas.
In terms of pricing you have to go through the old product or the old contracts and then look for the new ones to be repriced and it depends on the channel whether it's utility versus distribution et cetera.
But broadly yes you'd expect to recover this over time as has happened in the past.
Again the government can change its mind about things or have new directives.
But right now it's a strong team and I feel good about our business plan which already had contemplated both the devaluation at least from a P&amp;L standpoint not a balance sheet standpoint and also the time it takes to recapture some of the higher costs inherent in the devaluation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that $20 million allowance is really the impact from the timing of the repricing.
Is that a fair way to sort of characterize it? Rich the $20 million you're talking about is what...
Year-over-year headwind.
Year-over-year headwind.
Yes and so we need to be cautious and -- but I would say internally we would look at -- the headwinds are really the lag as you try to recalibrate to the devaluation and the loss of 6 weeks or so in the beginning of this year.
On the other hand we'll go after some of that headwind and we'll have to see what we can deliver for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just sort of a bigger picture question.
Once the financial -- restated financials come out hopefully later this week and then given the sort of flurry of activity on the acquisition side in 2012 would it be fair or is it fair to assume that now share repurchase with your $125 million I think is what's available does that become maybe the highest priority maybe or I should say ahead of the acquisitions in 2013? Yes I think we're -- we'll always be alert to opportunities such as Alcan and Prestolite and Procables presented.
I think it's -- as we said before we're really focused on -- and those acquisitions are being well integrated and then getting a position where NSW Mexico India South Africa Peru and the Brazil new product startups are all accretive economically to the company not slightly dilutive as they are today so that with our -- as we've looked at ROW we've been able to sort of pour additional resources into getting that right.
But we'll always be alert for good ideas.
But I would say we really just need to mature those investments that we've made and that's without commenting on purchases which as you know that program exists into October or thereabouts of this year.
So yes I'm at a point where I want to get a high return on capital.
I want to get my investments fully matured in terms of these greenfields brownfields.
I feel great about where we started with Prestolite and Alcan and Procables.
And then we've had a management transition that I think has been successfully undertaken.
And we've got -- we're getting great focus on Asia Pac sub-Saharan Africa and then we pulled the Americas together and I think that's expanding opportunity as well.
So without telling you which way we're headed right now we want to be pushing cash off out of the balance sheet and keep improving our return on capital.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is I really am just trying to understand your first quarter guidance a little bit better.
The way you're laying it out it's looking a lot like the fourth quarter results which were hampered by this big $12 million charge on the revaluation -- reevaluation of the submarine profitability.
And also you won't have the drag associated with pulling down inventory.
So can you just kind of lay out how much sequentially of a headwind is the decline in Venezuela going to be? Are you looking at a loss in the NSW business in the first quarter? Can you just help us understand some of those moving pieces? The NSW Noelle will be operating at a loss because you can't do a lot of work at this time of year in North Sea Baltic Seas.
Europe largely is moving sort of sideways with the exception of NSW which is still -- which is down from prior year but is running a loss and we expect Europe to be at an operating loss in the first quarter moving to profitability in the second.
Venezuela is a big headwind because it's -- we lost half the quarter and we had sort of the pause due to the devaluation which is millions of dollars in materiality.
And  Noelle frankly our second quarter because of the Alcan and some of the peakedness our second quarter with both some of the projects as well as the construction-driven nature of the business is looking quite strong so we have a little bit of a push there.
North America is pretty much broadly the same sort of run rate slightly stronger in the first quarter.
And I would say that net-net it looks a lot like the fourth but with a sharper movement up in the second quarter probably stronger than some of the movements we've seen before.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us a sense on the NSW business kind of just how for the year by quarter you'd expect revenue or volume to trend what's embedded in your guidance? Yes I would say the volume in the NSW business or in the offshore business is a little tricky as an indicator because of the service component of the business.
But generally I would say we'll have a tougher first quarter simply because of the conditions that we mentioned around the construction the weather primarily in the North Sea probably moving towards a more normalized into the second quarter and then in the third and fourth quarter improving.
So maybe if I put it into halves maybe it's sort of 60% second half 40% sort of first half in that business.
And we'd expect that Noelle the second quarter to be more than double the first quarter revenues and probably materially more than double.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
That's great.
One last question.
Can you give us an update on EBIT margins how they're trending in Alcan both North America and China? The -- China is -- other than there's always competition in China China we expect to be profitable this year and it would be profitable in the 5% to 10% operating margin range.
North America we would see also in the 5% to 10% operating margin range Noelle.
And Prestolite would be at the high end of that range.
Noelle once second on Prestolite it would be I would say in the 5% to 10% maybe in the middle.
The ROW -- I should point out the first quarter with the holidays ROW has always been weaker in the first quarter than the other quarters and then we've had it exacerbated by this Venezuelan thing.
So we're not surprised in what we're seeing in ROW in the first quarter and we expect to see it improve materially in the second.
There are no further questions.
I turn the call back to General Cable.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation today.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kyle and I'll be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Director Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; Greg Lampert our President and Chief Executive Officer of the Americas; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our first quarter results followed by comments on the company's outlook for the second quarter.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide additional comments on our 2013 full year outlook and business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook.
With that I will now turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning.
We are pleased to report that all 3 of our segments performed about as expected during the first quarter.
Consistent with seasonal demand expectations net sales and global unit volume declined 4% sequentially as weather-related limitations on construction and project activity and typical holidays throughout many Latin American countries curbed demand in the first quarter.
Adjusted operating income of $46.2 million was above the midpoint of our range of expectations principally due to strong contributions from acquisitions and solid results in our base businesses in North America.
The momentum of our recent acquisitions continued in the first quarter as these businesses again exceeded our expectations for a second consecutive quarter.
Adjusted EPS near the low end of our communicated range of $0.23 per share reflects the additional impact of foreign currency transaction losses and a higher-than-expected effective tax rate.
Due to the mechanics of the quarterly computation under applicable tax accounting rules a tax benefit was recognized in the first quarter on a GAAP basis.
We have removed this tax benefit so as to present the first quarter at an adjusted effective tax rate of approximately 36.5%.
For 2013 the company now expects its full year adjusted effective tax rate to be in the range of 40% excluding the impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela.
The company's effective tax rate for the full year has increased from prior expectations due to the relative greater mix of forecasted full year earnings and higher tax jurisdictions and forecasted full year tax losses in certain countries including Germany Spain and India.
On a full year basis our cash tax rate is estimated to be in the range of 25% for 2013.
Next on Slide 6 we provided a reconciliation of the items excluded from adjusted operating income for the first quarter.
The company recorded $3.5 million of expenses related to its submarine cable business which includes $2 million for damaged cables on 2 separate power cable projects and $1.5 million related to the legal settlement of a warranty dispute in its offshore cable supply business.
The company also incurred restatement and forensic investigation costs in Brazil of $5.4 million and further severance-related charges in Europe of $2.7 million during the first quarter.
Lastly the company closed a small manufacturing facility in its electronics business in North America and moved the production to other facilities within the region.
This facility closure is expected to result in annual savings in the range of $500 000 to $1 million.
Moving to Slide 7.
Net sales decreased 5% on a metal adjusted basis principally due to typical seasonal declines in global unit volume which declined 4% sequentially.
Adjusted operating income for the first quarter of 2013 was also down 4% or $2 million compared to $48.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Other expense reflects the $40.9 million impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela as the company remeasured its global balance sheet in the first quarter.
Also reflected in other expense are the movements of mark-to-market economic hedges of $9.2 million and foreign currency transaction losses of $2.6 million.
On the next 3 slides we've outlined some of the key metrics for each of our reportable segments.
First in North America on Slide 8.
Adjusted operating income in the base businesses in North America improved 18% sequentially driven principally by results in the company's specialty networking and Electric Utility businesses.
Results in the base businesses year-over-year were stable despite declining metal prices toward the end of the first quarter of 2013 which was in sharp contrast to the rising metal price environment experienced in the first quarter of 2012.
Contributions from Alcan Cable and Prestolite were strong as results again exceeded our expectations for the first quarter of 2013.
On Slide 9 adjusted operating income in ROW decreased in the first quarter of 2013 principally due to typical seasonal declines and the political and economic uncertainty coupled with extended statutory leave requirements in Venezuela where results declined $9 million as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
Year-over-year results were down in the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to the strength of aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil and stronger results in Venezuela in the first quarter of 2012.
Demand remained stable in Asia Pacific principally driven by construction activity in Thailand and the Philippines.
Overall contributions from the acquisitions of Procables and Alcan Cable China were in line with our expectations for the first quarter.
On Slide 10 conditions in Europe and Mediterranean remain difficult.
The lack of construction and installation activity due to weather-related limitation on submarine and land-based turnkey projects had a negative impact on our first quarter results as expected.
The benefit of cost reduction efforts over the past several years and stronger electric utility cable shipments in the Mediterranean helped to partially offset the impact of the ongoing weak pricing environment throughout much of Europe.
Year-over-year the first quarter of 2012 benefited from the supply of offshore specialty cables out of Germany stronger demand for electric utility cables in France and the production of submarine power cables.
The company's project backlog was about $630 million at the end of the first quarter and represents broadly an even split between submarine and land-based turnkey cable projects.
Moving to Slide 11.
Net debt was $1 048 000 000 at the end of the first quarter of 2013 an increase of $236 million from the end of the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase in net debt is principally the result of higher working capital requirements due to normal seasonal trends as well as the impact of funding approximately $37 million of copper purchases made in Venezuela under the company's previously issued authorization to import copper.
The impact of the Venezuelan currency devaluation also contributed to the increase in net debt as the value of the company's cash held in bolivars in Venezuela was reduced by $45 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The company intends to use a portion of the proceeds of its 2012 issuance of $600 million in senior notes to repay the 2013 convertible notes at maturity later this year.
In the interim part of the proceeds from the issuance have been used to reduce the ABL borrowings to 0.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations internal growth and continuing product and geographic expansion opportunities as well as its stock repurchase program.
The company made no common share repurchases during the first quarter under its $125 million share repurchase program authorization which expires at the end of October 2013.
The company will utilize its buyback authority in the context of economic conditions as well as the then prevailing market price of the common stock of the company regulatory requirements alternative capital investment opportunities and overall global liquidity.
Before turning the call over to Greg to provide some comments on the company's 2013 full year outlook and business trends I wanted to briefly touch base on Slide 13 where you'll see our expectations for the second quarter of 2013.
Global unit volume is expected to improve in the second quarter due to seasonal demand patterns driven by construction electricity grid reliability and reinforcement work submarine and land turnkey project installation and transmission projects in North America along with the next phase of Brazilian transmission projects which are expected to begin shipping in the second quarter of 2013.
However given recent declines in metal prices the company now expects adjusted operating income in the range of $70 million to $80 million at current metals as of April 29.
The company estimates the impact of a lower metal price environment on operating results in the second quarter to be in the range of $15 million to $20 million.
Adjusted earnings per share are expected to be in the range of $0.50 to $0.60 per share based on an effective tax rate of approximately 41% for the second quarter which reflects the impact of the company's revised full year forecasted earnings mix and full year forecasted tax losses previously discussed.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
As you can see on Slide 14 we have provided a roadmap outlining our revised 2013 full year outlook.
Overall we have lowered the midpoint of our full year outlook for adjusted operating income to approximately $300 million.
This reduction is principally due to the impact of the lower metal price environment which is expected to burden our operating results primarily in the second quarter by $15 million to $20 million.
We have also lowered our expectations for global unit volume primarily due to the company's start-up specialty cable business in Brazil which is coming online more slowly than we anticipated and general demand weakness in sub-Saharan Africa.
We expect stronger contributions from acquisitions to help offset this reduction in volume estimates.
Overall based on the midpoint for 2013 global unit volume and adjusted operating income are expected to improve year-over-year by 25% and 18% respectively.
We are expecting volume improvement in North America and ROW driven in large part by volume attributable to acquisitions which collectively are expected to contribute in the range of 340 million to 380 million pounds shipped in 2013.
While the seasonal earning step-up in the second quarter is expected to be muted by metal price headwinds we expect a sharp improvement in the third quarter of the year as these metal price headwinds subside.
At the midpoint of our guidance volume in our base business is expected to improve year-over-year in the low-single digits as demand in North America and ROW more than offsets weaknesses in the company's European and Mediterranean businesses.
We continue to expect the Europe and Mediterranean region to contribute 3% to 6% of consolidated adjusted operating income in 2013.
Global volume is expected to be somewhat skewed toward the second half as construction activity ramps up and greater quantities of metal-intensive aerial transmission projects in Brazil begin to ship.
We are pleased with the positive momentum of our recent acquisitions.
We are making excellent progress on integrating these businesses which will remain a key focus for us throughout 2013 as we work to capture manufacturing logistics and purchasing synergies.
Alcan Cable China was purchased late last year and is operating profitably.
In addition to a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility they have a very strong sales and distribution network.
We're now looking at ways to build on this extensive network access with other products produced locally or globally.
Overall we're well positioned to benefit from global growth trends energy infrastructure-related investments and improving construction activity.
The operating leverage in our business remains intact and has been further enhanced through our continuous cost reduction efforts as well as the acquisition of Alcan Cable North America which shares a similar historical earnings profile to that of General Cable's construction-driven businesses.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator who'll assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Rich Wesolowski from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Even recognizing the transmission comps of a year ago it appears to me that Brazil was the weak link in ROW.
And I am wondering if the performance there reflects a lack of punch in the economy or in government infrastructure spending or rather a General Cable-related business development issue that could be improved upon by the new management.
Yes.
Rich clearly the -- so as we said sub-Saharan Africa is a bit off.
It's not a big number.
Venezuela was significantly off but is picking up now.
And Brazil we had a series of new products around the industrial communication space.
They are complicated things to do.
It was a pretty big business that we're building.
I think with the -- we already had technical resources from around the world down there.
Greg Lampert and the team are accelerating that to make sure we have a smooth launch and get the lines profitably filled.
We're making nice progress in the communications line.
But I think we'll continue to press on that.
It's behind but I think the Brazilian -- the biggest part of Brazil was just the transmission product side of things which are lumpy.
But Brazil obviously is underperforming Rich and we're focused there.
We're making progress in Mexico.
Thailand Philippines are doing quite well.
As I said the China asset and ROW is performing.
Oceania is making money but not what we'd like to see but overall I would say it was Brazil and Venezuela that were the big swingers in the first quarter.
LLC</strong> And then secondly maybe you would probably give us an overview of the Brazilian transmission project area.
It was noted in the presentation that shipments will recommence in the June quarter.
How long would that strength last? And what visibility do you have beyond this round of shipments? Yes the -- we see 2013 as ramping up through the second half so there was almost no transmission shipments in the first quarter and it comes up nicely in the second quarter but well below prior year so about 1/3 of prior year.
And then we see the second half of '13 up materially from prior years.
So what happened is 2012 ran out of projects.
There was pause.
So we had a very big first half of 2012 of transmission shipments.
We're talking 25 million kind of pounds very little shipment in the second half.
That continued through the first quarter as there was a pause.
And right now it looks like we will sort of have in the second half of '13 the kind of volumes we expect to have the kind of volumes we had in the first half of '12.
So there was a 4-quarter pause but I would say the second quarter is a bit better than the first quarter but still well off from where it was.
But we continue to believe it will step up in the second half of the year materially and that's in our forecast.
LLC</strong> Is there a visible end to the shipments following the second half of '13? Or does it continue on from there? Yes Richard it's Brian.
I would say our viewpoint is it continues on from there.
I think the -- in -- for us the Brazilian market the long-term trends are -- we remain very optimistic about.
Clearly there are some short-term headwinds around GDP so we're one of the leaders on the transmission cable side.
Those projects continue to move ahead.
Now the one caveat is just in calling them exactly by quarter it gets a little difficult as you know because of the siting and when the cables get pooled.
We're big in -- we're a meaningful player in the construction cable market in Brazil but we're one of many.
And that -- again that one's very GDP sensitive.
And lastly as we said in the comments and as Greg said we're really focused on getting these specialties some of these other cables that we've been successful in elsewhere manufacture into the marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
Just had a quick question here.
Your free cash flow forecast is unchanged.
Kind of curious how that's unchanged based on the lower operating income forecast.
And then do you have any thoughts as far as actions for the buyback? Are you anticipating anything for the second quarter? Yes Shawn the -- holding the cash forecast again that we're providing we've provided a range.
The way that we're -- and so the reason I would say that we're holding it despite the reduction in the income forecast would be -- which is probably caused by the metals.
The corollary to the metals decline is from a cash flow perspective we benefit so actually is a help from that regard.
In addition we continue to focus on working capital management and that's also -- goes into the equation.
So we held the range because there are those moving pieces but headline wise the reduction in metals caused the headwind P&amp;L wise actually can help us and do help us on the cash flow side.
On the buyback side we have the $125 million program.
We did not use that in the first quarter.
Clearly depending on the model and investment in our own stock is a very compelling investment from a return perspective and I -- and we -- the math from accretion perspective clearly is important as well.
I think an argument that really is very strong and carries the day right now for us is around the -- our leverage and the liquidity in the business in the global business.
So as you know we have this seasonal build in inventories.
Our -- and so our gross leverage is just over 4 and our net just under 3.
So we're cognizant of that.
So we will continue to have the buyback as an option.
We want to see how sort of the year continues to play out from a metals and an earnings perspective but it's clearly still part of our arsenal and while the program expires in October management's viewpoint at this point is that we would want to extend it but ultimately that will be a board discussion and decision later in the year.
And then I guess the EBIT contribution you guys have for EMEA could you give us any more color around that? Are you still expecting that to hold up with what you were previously expecting? I think you said the -- you're talking about Europe and the Middle East or North Africa and do we expect that EBIT to hold up around what we were -- have been expecting which is a 3% to 6% of total adjusted operating income.
Is that what you asked? Correct.
Yes.
No I do.
The swinger always is the complex projects offshore but  we -- I'm seeing perhaps a bottoming in Spain.
And again we're in the selling season but it's around operating breakeven.
Portugal is a bit above.
We're continuing to see contribution from North Africa despite the investment that's fallen off because of the aftershocks of the Arab Spring.
France has weakened a bit.
You've seen some of the headlines on that and -- but we -- that has -- that stood taller last year.
It's a bit weaker.
But Spain I think with all the work we've done and some of the consolidation that invariably happens as people despair over pricing and volumes we're maybe seeing that reach a floor.
I say that hesitantly but right now we're looking at -- in April at just around the breakeven or slightly positive which is a first time in a long time.
And again a lot of the product we make in Spain goes outside of that market all throughout Europe and even internationally.
But I think right now we do see a significant improvement primarily on the strength of NSW getting into its -- the warmer weather and we continue to work through the projects.
We're seeing pretty decent activity for oil and gas submarine fiber optics and medium-voltage array cables.
We're working through the current large project.
So I think Europe maybe a softening in France a slight firming off bottom or bottoming in Spain or Iberia and then we continue to work our communications business in Europe and oil and gas and some of the niche businesses as well as improving our one Europe system.
So I feel it's sort of is what it is and -- but it's not -- I'm not seeing it materially change other than France as I said weakening a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So Brian maybe for you just wanted to understand the commentary about the expected pressure from copper.
The closest I can find to a comparable period was kind of the Q3 Q4 of '11 time frame.
And at that time we had copper down about 15%.
Again there was about $20 million hit to earnings.
This time we've got copper and aluminum down an average of about 8% but we're talking about pressure in the same range.
I'm just trying to make those 2 make sense.
Is there something I'm forgetting about an adjustment? Or just help me understand those 2 numbers.
Sure.
The impact back in 2011 when we had that very significant drop in -- near the end of the third quarter of '11 which then came through in the fourth quarter I think that was worth Matt more in the sort of $25 million area that we talked about.
Again this is not -- this is all our best estimate.
But I -- and remember too when we originally went -- when that occurred we also thought that the number would be slightly larger and that we'd actually see some into the first quarter of '12.
But then we saw some nice volumes and we saw metals start to recover in the first quarter so the impact was really isolated I'll call it to the fourth quarter of '11.
So turning to today I think the -- while the fall has not been as dramatic as what we saw in that third quarter of '11 it's still been quite sizable though.
So my percentage is a little bit higher than what you quoted there but it is -- but I do recognize they're smaller than what they were in '11 but also in a fairly short time frame.
In that the copper average in the month as you know we build our -- we typically are buying on the average occasionally for projects that are out materially.
We'll go ahead and hedge if we have something out more than 3 months but $3.66 in January $3.66 February and then it drops to $3.46.
I think the April average is $3.26 and this morning it hit $3.12 or something.
So it's been coming down pretty hard.
Also we've seen aluminum track down as well Matt so I -- this is sort of an inexact science.
It's been complicated because we're not running hard and we're -- we have activity but we're not full so some of the -- some of it really is people wait out as you know they wait out the copper to fall some distributors not all some.
And then they'll buy when it starts to look like it's firming.
So there's a lot of aberration when these kinds of movements occur but that's our best look as of through I think -- we look at this through I think through the $3.22 or $3.23 level then when we -- which was $3.23 which was closed a day or 2 ago.
I think Monday night closed.
So we'll have to see Matt but that's our sense.
We'll have to plow through that average cost tail.
Research Division</strong> And then you mentioned reference utilization.
Can you give us an update on utilization I guess Greg broadly maybe with specific focus on areas of the business that are getting to that 85-plus percent range.
And then in the guidance I'm specifically curious about construction and transmission in the U.S.
given that it's such a big part of the business now.
What's the assumed utilization as we kind of approach the end of this year? Matt we don't -- no one independently tracks utilization and we've looked at it from time to time so we try to give it a sense of approximation.
But in the -- broadly in most of our businesses they were approximately moving sideways from last year in the base businesses and I think you probably saw that in some of the announcements by competitors by channel partners.
The utilization again is sort of the same.
We have done well with our acquisitions.
In the transmission area that continues to be relatively strong.
It was up dramatically from the trough periods as an industry and our own business has been up.
It's -- our first quarter in 2013 was materially better than 2012.
Again this moves around but we Matt we see the utility sort of moving sideways.
Housing will help a bit.
The transmission continues to look like it will be strong in '13.
And again it always gets a little fuzzier as you go out but '13 looks like nearly double demand from where it was in 2006.
And then in '14 and '15 sort of at 2012 levels so it looks pretty good and of course we have a -- we've got a larger profile on that because of the Alcan position as well.
Wind is off but starting to rebuild Matt and then the core utility business is -- has come up but it's still well off the former peak.
So we're working through that.
But we're down versus the peak on the distribution low voltage and distribution business low-voltage and medium-voltage distribution.
We're still 33% below the 2004 '05 kind of peak but we're up 21% from the trough in 2009.
So it's coming back but I would say it's coming back gently but it's -- still we have enormous amount of travel from where that was in the '04 '05 '06 time frame.
But we expect transmission to hold together.
Again that can get a little bit time.
Projects come and go and we can see that move from quarter-to-quarter but broadly we think we're in a peak time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one more then on the construction side Greg.
At the Analyst Day you had some pretty constructive things to say about construction in general and really it was a global comment with some emphasis on the strength in the U.S.
and Canada.
Can you just provide an update there? Has anything changed? Are you still as optimistic as you appeared at the Analyst Day? The first quarter I would say there's been a lot of talk and results from companies where the first quarter was generally a bit weaker than people thought it might be and I still feel strongly about the construction impact on our business maybe -- I think overall GNP was -- came in a bit lower than analysts had hoped in the U.S.
and -- but I'm encouraged because housing pulls a lot alone and the non-resi as we said at the Analyst Day was sort of moving sideways but at least it was relatively stable.
We also obviously are watching major projects around infrastructure and things like that which tie to mining oil and gas that kind of thing.
But other than I would say a weaker a choppier first quarter just broadly as reported in the results by many companies including our channel partners.
I think our -- my feeling is still the same.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I first have just a few questions on Venezuela.
The color you gave on your expectations for Brazil by quarter were helpful.
Could you talk about how you're seeing Venezuela kind of play out by quarter this year? Well we're sort of not in the -- we'll be more general in the second half of the year but broadly we expect it to pick up nicely in the second quarter perhaps triple the first quarter performance which as you know had a new law and which caused a lot of the country to be shut down for the first half or the first quarter as people were compelled to take vacation rather than get paid to work through it.
This is broadly in the economy and we had the close election and all of the stuff that went before as well as Chavez' death.
So we would anticipate that we'll have a good second quarter and again that should carry through -- sort of that trend line through the bulk of the year.
And as you know Venezuela has made in the 20%-ish of our overall operating income over time.
But Venezuela is performing through April and we anticipate it to be approximately 3x higher operating income in the second quarter than the first.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So have you -- it's been I guess a couple of weeks now since the elections.
Have you seen a meaningful acceleration in terms of just demand and orders following the -- that election? We expected it to go back to normal and I would say it's based on what I saw in April it looks like it's okay.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the NSW business or actually on the turnkey business in general you still have a nice backlog in that business.
Can you speak to your confidence to replace that work as you start to work through that backlog? Yes there'll be -- Noelle we're still seeing -- I think there's an article in The Wall Street Journal on people going into the North Sea and trying to recover more oil because of some fields that were skipped.
That was in the last week I think.
There's still wind projects.
There's also a lot of communications projects as well.
So I would say the projects will be somewhat smaller but they're out there.
Our bid activity is good and I feel relatively comfortable that we have a line of sight.
Again you have to go win them and then go deliver them.
But the business is still out there Noelle.
Some of the mega contracts that were released 1.5 years ago and then stalled as the market was still finding itself in terms of supply chain and how people get paid et cetera that -- I think now there's a lot of just smaller projects but a number of them and that's okay.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question if I may.
Just looking at the impact of copper and the squeeze you're seeing in the second quarter given that copper has kind of continued to decline into today and I think your lag is about -- tends to be around 3 months.
Do you think you could see a bit of a headwind in terms of that copper squeeze going in the early third quarter? Do you think it'll be largely isolated to the second? Well we sort of cut off this for today.
Preparing for today we cut off with copper in the low $3.20 range.
Obviously it's moved down a bit.
It's been $0.04 a day volatile but there's a tail.
Yes there's possibility that we could see a little bit of headwind into the third quarter.
We already probably -- again copper has broken $0.10 in the last 1.5 days so from where we're talking we'll have to see where she goes.
But sure Noelle it's possible.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Brian I had another question just around the variables of that $15 million to $20 million impact from metals on Q2.
Does that become a conservative forecast if we were to see some pickup in metals prices during the quarter and presuming selling prices follow? Yes Brent yes broadly but I think what we found typically -- particularly in an environment that we're talking about today it's to be fair I think you -- we see it accelerate a little harder on the downside than to get it back quickly in the market.
I think again given some of the trends we talked about from a demand perspective but sure if metals ran up but -- and I go back to Noelle's question as well which is when we take a -- when we look at this from a long-term perspective obviously this is a -- this short-term volatility is noise for us.
The long-term our fundamental view remains the same around the business.
I think to Noelle's point around the third quarter impact I think it's a little too early to call.
There are so many variables around our volumes and end-market pricing.
Again to Greg's point if we continue to see copper drop that obviously will become a bigger risk.
But again we saw it drop a lot in April for a number of days and then it climbed back by $0.20 in a couple of days.
So we're watching it very closely and it's a little early to exactly call.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And most of my other question's been answered but just a broader question on -- in terms of transmission cable demand obviously the U.S.
has been good.
Brazil is ramping.
Greg or Brian what do you think the next sort of major opportunity is for you in terms of major investment in transmission? Well it's -- clearly Europe is strongly moving into a need to interconnect these grids so they can wield power and we have an important facility in Bilbao Spain called ECN that is benefiting by the know-how that came with -- that we have as a company but also came specifically with Alcan so -- and they operate a rod mill so where we have best practice teams working there.
So I see Europe as an opportunity.
We're touching transmission in many markets but I would say those are the -- there's really nothing of size and scale to compare to Brazil Europe and North America.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
One quick follow-up your old volume assumption was about 5% at the midpoint now it's low-single digit.
I guess could you break out what the volume contribution from North America ROW and EMEA would be organically now for 2013? This is on the base business Shawn? Yes.
Yes I would say North America would be in that low-single-digit sort of range.
Europe probably down slightly probably low kind of 0 to 5% and then ROW would be the balance so mid-single-digit base business improvement volume-wise on the base again putting aside Alcan Prestolite Procables Alcan China.
One other comment on the transmission the -- Procables acquisition brings a lot of transmission capability regionally so I would say that's not as big as any of the markets we've talked about but is something we're were working on presently to really use Procables to service the Andean pact and possibly over some parts of Central America.
That's all overhead transmission.
Your next question comes from the line of the Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with the volume I just -- look I just want to make sure I understand this.
It looks like your -- you brought down the middle pencil assumption for your acquisitions.
What does that reflect? I would say I guess somewhat in line with the overall trends.
To be fair probably also somewhat of an aggressive goal that we had.
So we brought the volume but you noticed we actually brought the contribution up.
So there's nothing major to report in terms of the outlook on the acquisitions.
I would say maybe just a little optimistic but we're happy to say that the profitability is actually better than we thought.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So say is it across the board that you're seeing better profitability? Or is it more in Alcan or Procables? Yes I would describe it as -- probably across the board is how I would say it.
So the question was on the acquisitions.
Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We're again thrilled with all of the acquisition and they're all contributing in a meaningful way.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other question can you speak to the order trends that you saw through the quarter and how they progressed in April? It's -- I would say they were fairly -- I'm not sure I would call it any sort of month as a special item.
Meaning that in different countries we had different trends and as we said we had talked about Venezuela a little bit we saw a return.
I think the first quarter I would describe as an anomaly because of all the reasons that we mentioned and so a sort of return to normal let's call it in April.
I would say the -- I don't know that we can say much more about the order patterns in the other businesses by month.
It's been like it has been for -- it's -- as we said we saw nice stability in the core North American businesses but I wouldn't highlight any sort of specific months or trends.
And Noelle part of the problem is reading off in April is we've got copper at the high end of the month it looks like a $3.43 and then closing on 29th of April at $3.23 where we did our work on this conference call and releases.
The -- so you get those kinds of things where copper comes back up.
Then the orders come dribbling in but -- or maybe come in a little harder but you've got that effect that we've had with -- in the past with real quick movements at a drop where people -- you may not get a true sense of what the underlying demand is because distributors could be waiting on a copper fall and living off inventory.
And We really other than a few places we really can't see into the distributor inventory with great accuracy.
But the -- I would say the market has been seasonally as we expect stronger but it's somewhat choppy.
Noelle it's Brian.
just with all those comments within the seasonal nature of our business remember as well as we've talked a lot about.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I'm assuming it's too early to try and estimate how -- the extent to which you think orders may be deferred or delayed at this point the amount of orders that may be [indiscernible].
Yes.
We'll never know.
If we could see into all our distributors' inventory we -- and their incoming order rate but we don't really -- our biggest class of customers on one side is utility who do releases we do some joint planning and then you've got distributors who are approximately as big.
But other than a few integrated supply chains in some regions we really don't have the data live to tell you what their -- we have to tell you what they're seeing.
So we can see our incoming from the distributors.
We know what we might be joint bidding in terms of projects but we really won't have their overall flow.
So yes we read the -- our distributor channel partner releases and we treasure the collaborative planning we do do with them.
But it's not a live feed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just finally how are you feeling about your inventory levels going in into the second quarter? We feel very good.
We took inventory out in the fourth quarter particularly in the rest of the world region.
We added inventory back in the first quarter in ROW and some in North America.
As we referenced we had this raw material buy in Venezuela so we feel very good about our inventory position headed in the second quarter for the rest of the year.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our second quarter results.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on the company's third quarter and 2013 full year outlook and business trends followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income and adjusted EBITDA in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning.
We're pleased to report our second quarter adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS were above our expectations.
Our businesses in Europe delivered a stronger performance and pricing held up better than anticipated in North America and ROW despite a persistently lower metal price environment.
On the volume side excluding acquisitions and aerial transmission projects in North America and Brazil global unit volume improved 7% sequentially as seasonal demand for utility cables and construction activity increased.
Despite a sharp improvement and seasonal demand unit volume was below expectations in some businesses in North America and ROW as were metal-intensive aerial product shipments in North America.
In Europe and Mediterranean demand improved sequentially 8% in the second quarter of 2013 which was consistent with our expectations.
Next on Slide 6 we provided a reconciliation of our reported to adjusted operating income for the second quarter.
The company recorded $8.2 million of expenses related to its submarine cable business which includes the write-off of $5.9 million of cable lengths that were determined to be unsellable during the quarter and $2.3 million in project settlement costs.
The company also incurred restatement and forensic investigation costs of $2.9 million related to last year's inventory theft in Brazil and further severance-related charges in Europe of $1.2 million.
Lastly the company closed a small manufacturing facility in its electronics business in North America in the early part of the year and moved the production to other facilities within the region.
This facility closure is expected to result in annual savings in the range of $500 000 to $1 million.
Moving to Slide 7.
Net sales increased 12% on a metal-adjusted basis principally due to increased seasonal demand and a greater mix of copper-based product shipments.
Adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2013 was up 83% compared to the first quarter.
Other expense reflects mark-to-market losses on economic hedges of $19.9 million principally due to declining metal prices which was partially offset by foreign currency transactional gains of $4.3 million.
The foreign currency transaction gains in the second quarter are principally the result of authorization received in Venezuela to purchase copper at a VEB 4.3 to each U.S.
dollar exchange rate.
The company received this authorization prior to the currency devaluation on February 13 2013.
The company expects to report a gain of approximately $4.5 million in the third quarter of 2013 for copper purchases in Venezuela that were approved prior to the devaluation.
On the next 3 slides we have outlined some of the key metrics for each of our reportable segments.
First in North America on Slide 8 adjusted operating income in the base businesses improved sequentially 27% as pricing held up better than expected despite selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment.
Contributions from acquisitions were in the range of 7% operating margins though volume for Alcan Cable North America declined sequentially principally due to metal-intensive aerial transmission product shipments.
Overall unit volume in our base businesses was up 10% in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter.
On Slide 9 adjusted operating income in ROW improved $16.8 million to $27.3 million in the second quarter due to seasonal demand patterns throughout Latin America as well as ongoing strength in Asia Pacific.
In Venezuela the political and economic uncertainty as well as the extended statutory leave requirements that hampered activity throughout the country in early part of the year subsided as construction and electrical infrastructure investment accelerated during the second quarter of 2013.
In Brazil the next phase of aerial transmission projects began to ship in the latter part of the second quarter as did products from the company startup specialty cable business.
Demand remained stable in Asia Pacific principally driven by construction activity in Thailand and the Philippines as well as in the acquired Alcan Cable China business.
On Slide 10 in Europe and Mediterranean adjusted operating income improved $20.2 [ph] million to $10.2 million in the second quarter of 2013.
This improvement is principally due to the sequentially stronger results in Spain and the Germany submarine -- and the company's submarine power turnkey project business.
Our submarine power turnkey project business improved due to increased seasonal installation activity and production as well as the completion of 2 supply contracts for medium-voltage submarine power cables in the North Sea.
In Spain our ongoing cost-reduction initiatives helped facilitate a better result as demand improves sequentially.
Moving to Slide 11.
Net debt was just under $1.1 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2013 an increase of $38 million from the end of the first quarter of 2013.
The increase in net debt is principally the result of higher working capital requirements due to the normal seasonal trends as well as funding used for share repurchases in the company's newly initiated dividend.
The company repurchased 1% of its common shares or $19 million during the second quarter under its $125 million share repurchase program authorization which expires at the end of 2013.
The company will continue to utilize its buyback authority in the context of economic conditions as well as the then prevailing market price of the common stock of the company regulatory requirements and alternative capital investment opportunities.
On June 28 2013 the company paid a dividend of $0.18 a share or $8.9 million to all holders of the company's common stock of record as of June 10 2013.
The quarterly dividend is the first for the company since 2002.
On Monday of this week the company's Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.18 per share payable on September 6 2013 to all holders of company's common stock of record at the close of business on August 19 2013.
Before turning the call over to Greg to provide some comments on the company's 2013 full year outlook and business trends I wanted to update you on our operating cash outlook for 2013.
This information is summarized on Slide #12.
We have lowered our full year outlook for operating cash flow to $125 million at the midpoint.
We now expect investments needed in working capital to support pockets of demand and strategies implemented to reduce financing costs to more than offset the benefit of lower average metal prices.
We anticipate purchasing metals to supply our business in Venezuela and our submarine power turnkey project business in the latter part of 2013.
In Brazil and Chile we expect an increased need for inventory in the latter part of the year and a higher level of receivables through the ongoing demand stability and project activity in the back half of this year.
We estimate the impact of these items to be a cash use of approximately $100 million.
We also took steps to better utilize cash balances in order to reduce borrowing costs and utilize the most cost-effective working capital financing alternatives available in Thailand and Spain which has the impact of reducing our operating cash flow by approximately $55 million for the year.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations internal growth and continuing product and geographic expansion opportunities as well as its stock repurchase program and quarterly dividend.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Good morning and thank you Brian.
As you can see on Slides 14 through 17 we've provided our third quarter and 2013 full year outlook.
Our overall business feels a bit more sluggish than previously anticipated.
In addition metal prices are falling materially over the last couple of months perhaps causing some customers particularly distributors to work that inventory.
We now expect global unit volume to improve around 8% in the second half of 2013 compared to the first half of 2013.
This anticipated increase principally reflects improvements in aerial transmission and specialty product shipments in Brazil a growing construction products business in North America and increased project activity in Thailand.
At July 30 metal prices adjusted operating income is expected to be in the range of $280 million for the full year of 2013.
Despite a challenging operating environment burdened by declining metal prices and planned seasonal inventory reductions adjusted operating income is expected to improve approximately 14% in the second half of 2013 as compared to the first half of the year.
We continue to expect Europe and the Mediterranean region to contribute 3% to 6% of consolidated adjusted operating income in 2013.
In addition to daily execution of working capital management we are focused on getting a positive return on our recent capital investments such as subsea cable and greenfields in the developing world.
At the same time we are making excellent progress integrating our recent acquisitions and continue to identify synergies in the areas of manufacturing logistics and purchasing.
The operating leverage in our business remains intact and has been further enhanced through our continuous cost reduction efforts as well as the acquisition of Alcan Cable North America which shares a similar historical earnings profile to that of General Cable's construction-driven business.
Overall our view of the intermediate and long-term demand growth drivers in the company's key end markets in North America and ROW is unchanged.
We're well positioned to benefit from the growth trends energy and infrastructure-related investments and construction activity in these markets around the world.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
This is Chris Dankert filling in for Shawn quick.
First off can you guys give us a little bit of granularity on how the decline in volume guidance has broken out by region and company a little bit? And then the Alcan North America results I think I caught in the beginning that was driven by weaker aerial product shipments.
Was that just weaker nonresidential than you were expecting or can you break that out? And I've got a quick follow-up.
Our North America and Chinese acquisitions which are Alcan and Prestolite are doing quite well and are at or above our business case for them.
The second quarter was a bit weaker for Alcan in terms of both -- some of the OEM products they make.
The aerial transmission as you know is lumpy and moves around.
And then there's obviously the orders that move in and out depending on what our customers are doing particularly in the OEM side.
So I wouldn't say -- I would say generally the residential world is just waking up and it impacts as you know our utility business as well.
So we're seeing some of that occurring some better demand in Florida and Arizona.
But I would say generally we haven't really felt the full impact of housing starts single family beginning to return to the kind of equilibrium level that we've seen over the last 15 or 20 years.
The non-resi as you know has been lackluster with some puts and takes with mining a bit down and government down and then some up in some other sectors.
So net-net Alcan was weaker in the second quarter than the first which is unusual.
But we feel very very good about the business and we're starting to see that ramp back up in the third quarter.
I don't have a breakout between how much was housing and not.
We really don't do that that finely.
But the sector of Alcan including building wire augmented building wire was relatively weaker than the first quarter.
Chris I would just add that the -- so from a 3-region perspective the reductions of volumes pretty much are in the North America and the ROW regions.
And the Europe and Med region actually has been -- it's pretty much consistent with the previous outlook in terms of the volume so there's -- so that's a very positive development.
Stepping up more broadly I would say as we look forward to the second half I would say utility spending is okay but a bit weaker than we thought.
We are seeing the wind orders come back and we are likely to have a one of the best years in transmission even though it's lumpy in the last 20 years maybe second only to last year or around last year's level.
The U.S.
industrial specialty OEM is okay but isn't accelerating.
And we see some choppiness and of course some of our channel partners and other people that serve the same markets I think in their calls have seen some of the same things so that is happening generally.
Latin America is okay it's going to be stronger in the second half than the first half.
And Asia Pacific is still paced primarily by our performance in China Thailand and the Philippines.
And then I guess looking at the lower operating cash flow guidance I mean you said you're keeping the buyback on the table.
What's the likelihood of that I guess given the lower cash flow? And I guess I might have missed it but I didn't see a release on what the operating cash flow was for the first half? Yes.
Chris I would say the -- I won't comment specifically on our plans around the buyback.
But I would say when we look at the operating cash flow and the capital structure we look at it over time.
So as you know we've talked a lot about our liquidity over time.
So we feel very good and we feel very good around our ability to continue to deploy capital in all the areas that we've talked about whether it's supporting organic growth working capital volatility opportunities that we see to grow the company and the dividend and the buyback.
We did not comment on the year-to-date operating cash flow Chris because if -- you will notice in the press release we have in this release just shown the current period numbers as we stated in the release because we're going through this process to resolve some outstanding comments with the SEC on our amended filings.
So we did not comment on the OCF through the first 6 months.
Your next question is from the line of Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So in the release you said that in the outlook you're using $3.04 copper.
We're seeing copper now move to $3.17.
And if I do some math it appears that the guidance for both Q3 and Q4 if I extrapolate out the Q4 outlook it seems to point to a gross profit per pound step down in both quarters in Q3 and then again in Q4.
So can you talk -- is my math right? And if so what are you -- what's driving that deterioration of your gross profit per pound? And then I guess the second part of the question is if we hold at $3.17 what does that do to your guidance holding all of the things unchanged? Well Matt a lot of things move around.
We held the price better in a falling copper market which led to that and other things and outperformance in the second quarter.
But we've seen metals worked down has come up you're absolutely right in the last 2 days.
And this morning's call it's $3.1725.
And as you know a fair amount of our business perhaps half has some type of mechanism around it.
But in general the -- I would say the fall in copper was in our thinking as we were selling inventory in the $3.30-plus range into a market that 2 days ago looked to be at $3.04.
And again our distributor customers particularly are watching trends in copper not just daily set points.
So copper has been quite weak since March and has been falling continually where in March it peaked -- or I should say February $3.66 and she ran all the way down to just about $3 including stepping down another $0.03 or $0.04 on average in the month of July versus June and then materially stepping down before that.
So long and then short math we're -- this hopefully will push -- if this holds and we see some upward movement we might see distributors replenish which would be -- not every distributor's model works that way.
Some of them are just looking for velocity some of them are watching the market.
To some extent it's a mixture.
But we might see some orders come in just because things are bottoming and that would give us a little -- if it would hold here that would give us some enhanced confidence going forward and it would be a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Is there...
This is Brian.
Sorry there's a couple of items I think -- just when you think about -- on a gross profit per pound basis as we move through the -- from the first to the second half.
Couple of the other items that I think factor into it would be some combination around the mix of the products.
So the aluminum versus the copper we have significant pounds in the second half in transmission for example in Brazil.
The inventory movement -- so I -- in big buckets in the first half we added about $100 million of inventory of which we believe we'll take out in the second half so that causes some -- on a relative half-over-half perspective compression on the margin in terms of the lost absorption let's say.
And then lastly as we said we expected -- while we have had a very nice contribution from Venezuela in the second quarter we expected that to ease down a bit in the second half and that also impacts -- it impacted the profit per pound analysis.
Matt be mindful that the U.S.
is down and we're watching inventory very closely as our volume assumption is down in some parts of the world for the second half.
So we had July shutdowns in the U.S.
and as well as we got shutdowns in Europe in August.
And then we'll look at the whole portfolio again in December to see where we are.
So that's obviously lost absorption at the factory level if you have a shutdown.
Research Division</strong> What's the assumed pressure -- or I guess was there pressure in Q2 from distributors holding off on ordering Tritton [ph] on copper and what's the assumed pressure in Q3? Well Matt we assumed that copper -- we're still working down.
So we were in a $3.14 average market in July.
We were -- when we prepared this release it's at $3.04 and then looked forward to the second half.
So we would have assumed that their -- that the market was working down to $3.04 and then would hold in the pressure.
Then if you're looking at that forward you'd assume within a couple of weeks that is the level.
And so I don't have a formula to do that other than to say that we saw the market continuing to soften and we would've seen that impact demand in the first weeks as that level was established.
As you pointed -- someone pointed out it's moved up in the last 2 days or 1.5 days.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then finally you kind of hit on some of the end markets Greg already.
But at the Analyst Day I remember the words snapping back where you used to describe what was happening in the construction arena kind of globally.
Can you give an update there? And as we look out even beyond Q3 Q4 in the next year what's your gut telling you that non-res environment is going to look like? Well we were talking about I think a snap back in resi which you can see in the data still below long-term trends but was substantially improved and then of course multi-family homes.
So we're below the trend line but we're getting closer.
And the trend line as you know we were operating at less than half of historical averages.
But even -- we don't anticipate getting back to '07.
The non-resi which is a very big driver for this company as you can see in the public data is even to down slightly.
It's -- if you look at the forward forecast it's all around no change with some puts and takes by sector with coal mining down and other things up.
But broadly Matt the housing should pull well for us in the U.S.
and to the extent that it's bottoming elsewhere.
We talked before about really the housing bubble only occurring in some markets not all markets so we watched the U.S.
closely.
But I will say the non-resi feels sloppy OEM production feels sloppy.
The residential is beginning to have some impact but it's -- you've got to create the house wire it et cetera you see people building out existing developments that were sort of stopped.
But we -- as I said earlier we have seen some -- on the utility we have seen some positive things now happening in Arizona and Florida.
And I would expect that that would be good for our low-voltage and medium-voltage businesses as well as cables used on the job site aluminum building wire that has residential application et cetera.
Your next question is from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I guess just to ask some previous questions a different way.
Just given the step down in full year guidance from where you started and then -- but you seem to be seeing things get a little bit weaker here from a demand perspective and then you layer on this fall to a copper environment on top of that.
Can you give us some specific factors that can get us comfortable your implied 2H operating income guidance is conservative enough and that we'll see that growth that you're looking for? Well I can -- all I can do is tell you what I think with the facts I have today.
But obviously the headlines are changing daily from the fed worried about this inflation as today's headline to relatively sober forward-looking statements from people in and around our sector.
We -- based on where we are today this is what we see but I -- all we can do is keep taking cost out get these greenfields and brownfields turned manage as well as we can and keep getting better at project execution.
But I can't tell you other than -- you can look at what economists say about metal pricing and where it could be.
And with aluminum selling below cost of production from some people and copper $0.30 above and you can look at the FW Dodge or other forecast I would say the non-resi is just an OEM production generally are sort of flatlined.
So I don't see particularly see it getting worse in terms of kind of what we're seeing at incoming order rates but it's choppy.
Your next question is from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First I just wanted to start with -- I'm trying to understand this inventory issue because you didn't release the balance sheet in the quarter.
Did you build inventory here in the second quarter? I'm just trying to get a sense of what the trend was.
It is -- it was really the build -- no I was really in the -- mostly in the first quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a typical...
The second quarter was sort of at a plus or minus $5 million or $10 million.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then could you just go into more detail on these cash investments that you're undertaking to reduce the financing costs? So talk a little bit about what you're doing here in Thailand and Spain.
Sure.
Sure.
Part of it is just -- there is 2 pieces to it and one is just applying -- actually just using the cash that we have on hand in Asia to reduce some of the way that we finance the working capital there.
So there's a couple of hundred basis points benefit of what I'll call using the cash more efficiently.
And then in the Spanish business it would be a similar theme but more around just how we choose to finance the working capital meaning versus whether we use long-dated payables where we pay interest or we use bank facilities.
And that causes that reclass in the operating cash flow.
But the 2 -- or the impact to the operating cash flow.
So the 2 together about $55 million.
I would say the net interest savings are in the range of $1.5 million to $2 million on a per annum basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then going back to the lower results sequential results of Alcan in the quarter how much of that sequential decline came from transmission and how much came from OEM? And then I'm curious to know if there were any project pushouts in the quarter or anything that surprised you on the transmission side.
And then also if you could just walk through just your expectations for that business as we move here into the back half.
I'm heading to really start taking Alcan apart on a call and -- I would say transmission was weaker the aluminum building wire was weaker and the OEM products were all weaker.
We expect that to pick up.
It was still very accretive very profitable and there's been a lot of good industrial synergies.
We saw a bit of a lull in the second quarter with aerial transmission.
It actually fell for the company with Alcan being the largest part.
And part of the reason it's hard to answer to your question is Alcan is fairly intermixed with General Cable particularly on transmission today as well as it has an aluminum rod mill which actually can supply General Cable or supply the OEM markets so -- but transmission fell in the second quarter from the first quarter which was quite strong and -- but nevertheless it was well above -- our data is in our mix but it was well above what the company did on its own the prior year but of course you'd expect that.
But Alcan is contributing.
Second quarter was a bit slower.
We're seeing a pick up in the transmission side.
We're also seeing the OEM business tick up and I'm also pleased with the pick up in the building wire side.
So net-net Alcan is going to be in our belief today is that it will be well above our business case with also strong contribution from Alcan China.
But it's getting harder and harder to track it because they make many of the same products that General Cable does so we may put the order on one factory or another et cetera.
So we probably can't answer it with a precision you'd like.
But it was a weaker quarter from an operating profit standpoint to the best we can track it than the first quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last housekeeping question.
You're looking at now a 45% tax rate for the year.
What -- which geographies have to become profitable for you to be able to utilize those essentially the tax NOLs? Yes.
Well Noelle I'd take a step back.
I think part of the higher tax rate as well is the I'll call it the amount of earnings that come from say the U.S.
and -- a couple of specific countries like the U.S.
and Venezuela.
So I think the part of recipe is to get the more broad-based earnings which will help and then specifically around the countries that are -- that have created the pressure on the -- from a tax laws perspective it will be -- and I believe we have this in the financial slides but it would be Germany Spain Peru India.
So a couple of -- just back to what we're saying earlier is really getting these greenfields consistently profitable and getting a broader diversification of earnings will help that tax rate a great deal.
Your next question is from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
I know you said that you're taking metal prices from July 30 to average so far.
Just to be crystal clear that's $3.18 on copper and $0.83 on aluminum and your split is still about 50-50? No.
It would be $3.04 on copper and...
$0.91 on aluminum.
Those are the spot -- our current metals on July 30.
All right.
And then your adjusted gross margin did you provide a percentage? We did not but we can give that to you.
While he's looking we are approximately 50-50 by metal pounds in a given year obviously wiggled by transmission or rod shipments out of Alcan and Brazil but that's about right.
And Shawn you asked about the adjusted operating margins about 5% for the second quarter.
Are these the adjusted gross margins you said? No it's the operating margin.
Operating margin.
There are no further questions at this time.
General Cable I'll turn the call back over to you.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Will and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on First Call and on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our third quarter estimated results.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on the company's fourth quarter outlook and early view on demand trends heading into 2014 followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income in today's call.
Also please note the financial results discussed today are preliminary estimates due to the timing and ongoing preparation of the company's restated financial statements as described in the press release issued last night.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have included a reconciliation of our previously communicated outlook.
With that I'll turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning.
We continue to build the long-term foundation of many parts of our business despite the continuing difficult operating environment which is characterized by heightened uncertainty limited visibility and uneven demand patterns.
Our third quarter estimated results in Europe and ROW were an early reflection of this progress.
Both segments were generally in line with our expectations which reflects the consistent day-to-day execution of our business teams as well as the momentum of key initiatives implemented over the past several years and months.
We were also pleased with the performance of our recent acquisitions which continued to exceed our expectations.
Despite this progress our estimated results for the third quarter fell short of our expectations principally due to certain of our businesses in North America.
Seasonal demand as it relates to grid reinforcement and maintenance activities were lower than anticipated.
Delivery schedules for aerial transmission products shipments shifted from Q3 into Q4 in early 2014 and construction activity while stable fell short of expectations.
Next on Slide 6 we provided a reconciliation of our estimated reported to estimated adjusted operating income for the third quarter.
The company recorded $4.9 million of expenses principally related to legal and tax assessments in certain Latin American operating units.
The company also incurred restatement related cost of $1 million and further severance charges in Europe of $700 000.
Moving to Slide 7 we have provided a bridge of our previously communicated third quarter outlook for global unit volume.
Overall unit volume fell short of expectations by just over 3% principally due to results in North America.
In North America stable demand for copper-based electrical infrastructure products and specialty cables was more than offset by lower-than-expected aluminum-based Electric Utility product shipments including aerial transmission as well as construction cables and rod and strip products.
In Europe seasonally lower unit volume was generally in line with expectations across most major end markets throughout the region.
In ROW unit volume was in line with expectations due to continuing stability in Latin America and Asia Pacific specifically construction spending in China and the Philippines continue to drive demand for the company's products.
In Brazil we continue to benefit from aerial transmission product shipments as well as traction gained in our new specialty industrial and communications cable businesses.
On Slide 8 we've provided a bridge of our previously communicated third quarter outlook for adjusted operating income.
Estimated adjusted operating income for the third quarter of 2013 reflects stability in Europe and ROW.
In Europe we again benefit from the consistent execution in the third quarter in our submarine turnkey project business.
The company's land and submarine turnkey project backlog was approximately $540 million at the end of the third quarter.
Estimated adjusted operating results in ROW were buoyed by stronger-than-expected results in Venezuela and stable results in China and the Philippines.
However these positive trends were more than offset by the impact of lower-than-expected unit volume in North America and continued pricing pressure.
Moving to Slide 9.
Estimated net debt was just under $1 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2013 a decrease of $90 million from the end of the second quarter of 2013.
The decrease in net debt is principally due to reductions in working capital as a result of normal seasonal trends.
On Slide 10 we have provided summarized comments on our expected operating cash flow over the second half of 2013.
We now expect to generate operating cash flow over the second half of 2013 in the range of $120 million to $140 million which is lower than previously expected.
Estimated operating cash flow for the third quarter of $120 million was generally in line with our expectations.
However in the fourth quarter we anticipate less of a reduction of inventory due to the softening demand environment and the building of inventory in certain key businesses in Latin America in order to better capture market opportunities.
In Europe the company is utilizing its asset-based loan to fund a portion of its working capital needs.
While there's a negative impact on operating cash flow expected in the fourth quarter there is no impact on the overall cash flow.
The implementation and usage of the asset-based loan to fund working capital in Europe is a more stable source of funding over the long-term for our businesses in the region.
As a result of these items the company now expects to generate operating cash flow in the range of $0 million to $20 million during the fourth quarter.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations internal growth and continuing product and geographic expansion opportunities as well as its stock repurchase program and quarterly dividend and redemption of its $355 million of convertible notes due this month.
Before turning the call over to Greg to provide some comments on the company's fourth quarter outlook and business trends heading into 2014 I would like to briefly update you on the timing of our restated financial statements as described in the Other Matters section of our press release issued last night and the Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 15 2013.
The restatement process involves many workstreams which are being conducted by the company with the support of external advisers and in parallel with the external audit process.
We're making solid progress as we push to finalize the restated financial statements and related documentation and are targeting to file the restated financial statements before the end of the year.
Finally as noted in the press release we determined that an indicator of potential asset impairment is present in our Mexican business due to a history of losses and the continuing difficult local market environment.
The company is in the process of preparing its internal forward business plans in the 2014 outlook which will be used to finalize the assessment of the carrying value of the company's assets in Mexico.
Based on the history of losses and preliminary estimates of the undiscounted future cash flows of its operating unit in Mexico we may be required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the carrying value of the operating unit in Mexico.
The asset balance that is subject to such assessment of impairment is approximately $29 million at September 27 2013.
We currently anticipate completing this analysis in November 2013.
The non-cash impairment charge if any would not impact the adjusted non-GAAP financial information presented by the company.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
As you can see on Slides 12 and 13 we've provided our fourth quarter outlook and a view of expected demand trends heading into the early part of 2014.
In the fourth quarter we are expecting typical seasonal volume declines to be partially offset by project-related activity globally.
In North America orders that were delayed in the third quarter for aerial transmission cables are expected to ship in part in the fourth quarter as well as in the early part of next year.
In Europe the company's land-based and submarine turnkey project businesses are expected to deliver a number of projects in the fourth quarter.
In addition in Brazil deliveries of aerial transmission projects are expected to continue at a stable rate over the final months of the year.
We are expecting adjusted operating income to be flat sequentially in North America and Europe principally due to the benefit of project activity.
In ROW however ongoing stability in Asia Pacific and the benefit of project activity in Brazil is expected to be more than offset by lower contributions from Venezuela during the fourth quarter.
Overall our second half volume is expected to be weaker than we anticipated.
Utility mining and construction-driven spending has been generally below expectation.
While the macroenvironment for infrastructure products has been uneven we are making progress in a number of areas.
In Europe over the last several years we've removed significant costs and are improving the cross-utilization of our 7 plants.
Our NSW team has made significant progress in delivering complex offshore wind projects which are among the first in the world.
Our European-based oil and gas as well as communications cable businesses are growing quite nicely.
In North America we expect our Prestolite Wire and Alcan Cable acquisitions to perform above our investment case for 2013.
We're equally pleased with our focus on new products and innovation.
Over 15% of the products sold today have been refreshed or launched over the past 3 years.
We continue to look for ways to reduce manufacturing and logistics costs.
In Latin America we are accelerating the use of our Lean toolset with a focus on ways to entitlement capacity and customer service.
Higher value-added products have been identified and are arriving through cross-selling initiatives.
Our greenfields in partnership with Colombia are showing progress.
In Asia Pacific we have seen strong performance in China which was part of the Alcan Cable acquisition.
The Stabiloy brand is well-recognized and preferred.
Our partnership in the Philippines is thriving and we're looking for ways to improve our return on assets in Oceana.
While underperforming our expectations our African operations are improving and represent a strong channel for our European-produced specialty products.
Finally over the last year we've made significant progress building our company culture and reinforcing our values.
Our global councils and newly created global roles in talent management manufacturing technology supply chain sales and communications products are facilitating the sharing of best practices while improving daily execution and working capital management.
Over the last 10 years we have transformed the company through more than 20 acquisitions from a U.S.
and Canadian-centric player primarily dependent on copper telephone cable.
The wait for renewed infrastructure spending has been a long one.
In the meantime we've returned cash to shareholders and strengthened our global operating and talent management systems.
Overall our view of the intermediate and long-term demand growth drivers in the company's key end markets in North America and ROW is unchanged.
We are well-positioned to capitalize in a late cycle recovery from the growth trends in energy infrastructure and other related investments as well as construction activities in our end markets around the world.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison.
First question I had was just the commentary on early 2014 looks relative stability.
I know we haven't seen typical seasonality for a while but I mean how does that flattish trend compare to what you would expect just typical seasonality say into the first part of the normal year? That's a great question.
We were talking macro and prudent planning would say that we see the early part of next year sort of as a macro standpoint similar to the what we're seeing in the second half year.
From a seasonal standpoint and a performance standpoint we clearly have holidays in the fourth quarter of this year that we don't have in the first quarter of next year as well as again there is a -- that's the peak building season that we're moving towards through the first quarter and into the second.
So we're generally having to stay more busy in the manufacturing floor to meet the anticipated demand.
So broadly yes it's -- utility has been a bit weak in the third quarter and the other businesses are sort of a little behind where we thought at least the construction-related ones from driving a pickup.
But we should see in the first quarter generally that we have to get busier and there are less holidays.
So we're actually running more through our factories and we're preparing for the selling season.
I guess the follow-on to that is do you feel that the tide is beginning to turn in your favor or is it just more similar kind of what you've seen over the past 4 quarters in terms of just some ups some puts and some takes? I think internally and operationally I think we continue to see our ability to improve from this year going into next.
From a demand standpoint I think we're looking at a world that is similar perhaps a bit up with some weakness maybe on say U.S.
mining.
The U.S.
utility was weaker than we anticipated in the third quarter.
But broadly while it's choppy I don't see a big change.
We're getting better in Europe and I think we're also getting better in Latin America and in terms of just opportunity and our executions on some of these greenfields as well as our North Sea.
So I'm cautiously optimistic but I don't see a macroenvironment that's stepping up materially.
We'd love that to happen and are prepared for it but we're not planning on it at least in the early part of the year.
Okay.
And then Brian I have a clarification and then a follow-up.
What was the dollar amount of the noncash interest expense this quarter? And then second the question I'm getting from a lot of investors is as you look into the accounting issues in Brazil how do you know or will you know at the end of this that you're kind of finally at the end of everything and nothing pops up in another 3 to 6 months down the road? Okay.
Yes Shawn to your first question the noncash interest in the third quarter is $4.5 million.
Okay.
And then from a Brazil perspective so yes taking a step back the company has exercised and used a lot of resources to get to the bottom of all the issues in Brazil.
As you know this goes back to over 1 year ago starting with inventory theft.
And then as we disclosed earlier this summer a couple of months ago we also then -- in our remediation work so in remediating the control weaknesses that we had we identified the VAT issue and the bill and hold issue.
So Shawn as we said because we're in a second restatement our sensitivity and work that needs to get done here to be very let's call it meticulous in terms of our documentation and internal control is very high.
And so we're -- we've made a lot of progress in Brazil in terms of changing systems changing resources.
And so that we feel like we're on a very good path to making sure we've got all this buttoned up and our arms around everything.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What I'm still struggling with a little bit here is just the sequential decline in profitability in North America.
It looks like if you look sequentially again of it was about a $43 million decline in revenues or about a 6% sequential decline and that led to a $20 million reduction in operating profit so essentially a 46% decremental margin.
It just seems kind of high.
I mean were there some other factors -- just help me understand that.
Were there some other factors that came in? Was there some inventory reduction? If you could just kind of walk me through -- more detail there would be helpful.
The utility market was more -- was difficult in terms of pricing.
We also had our shutdown as you know broadly and have historically had is the August in Europe and the July in the United States and that obviously facilities are down or working a very light schedule.
So Noelle we know we have those shutdowns and we also saw a utility business that was weaker.
Our aluminum building wire business was a bit weaker than we thought.
We have known and had anticipated there's been a new entrant in that business some quarters ago but that business is still performing extremely well.
But we didn't see the acceleration of that business that we thought we might see.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you just help us understand with some of these deferred aerial transmission shipments that have been pushed out to fourth quarter and first quarter can you size those deferrals in some way maybe in the terms of metal pounds sold and then talk about how much of those shipments you expect to ship in the fourth quarter and how much you're expecting to see in the first quarter? Noelle this is Len.
I guess I would describe it as if you look of the volume miss of the 11 million pounds in North America I can probably describe roughly 1/2 of that would be around the aerial transmission projects that we expected to see that didn't happen.
So I'd expect to see a portion of those into the fourth and into the first part of early 2014.
Regarding timing it's probably a little bit of tough to call.
As you know these projects can be called off and uneven from time to time but certainly expect a solid fourth quarter from our aerial transmission business in North America.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly could you just try and give us a sense of specifically your expectations for Venezuela maybe how much of a headwind you're expecting from the slowdown there in the fourth quarter? Noelle it's Brian.
I think in the range of say about $5 million or so sequentially from third quarter to fourth quarter with respect to Venezuela itself.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Brian can you talk about the assumed level of SG&amp;A in the Q4 guidance? I would say it's maybe broadly consistent maybe a little bit up from the third quarter but in that I don't know call it $115 000 $120 000 sort of range.
Research Division</strong> So if I use that it appears that you have some incremental gross profit pressure baked in.
So following up on previous question what's the incremental source of pressure? It sounds like there's going to be maybe less inventory reduction.
Is there a mix issue? Just what's the gross margin implications in the guidance? I'd say there's obviously an element of seasonality in parts of the business.
There's -- and we've talked in the third quarter while the business in parts of North America are what we call stable the volumes were below expectations.
And we further reduced that volume expectation for Q4.
So I guess the other meaningful or important part of that Matt would be the general pricing pressure that we see in the marketplace would be the other piece of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- And the inventory as we pointed out the long [ph] and inventory is again it's primarily around the raw material.
So it hasn't gone through the factory and it relates to the complexity of some of the supply agreements in a relatively weaker aluminum business than it had looked to us in terms of some of the pushout of the transmission.
So that's -- it's not -- it's less finished goods and more -- other than in some parts of ROW we had to prepare for deliveries.
But in North America it's primarily raw material.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you Greg.
And Greg I think you answered on a previous question some of the areas that maybe are going to be better or you kind of gave some end market commentary.
Can you -- one of the questions I get a lot from investors is which geography is most important which end markets are most important? So maybe talk about any maybe any one geography or any product segment that a is most important and b you're most optimistic about next year? And I'm not necessarily just talking about the top line but from a profitability perspective what if there is one area that could get you excited as you move into the next year and it could move the needle what would it be? We're still doing our business planning and working through also refreshing strategic plans.
But the biggest business today it is North America.
We continue to press on cost and logistics across the board there.
The utility is the biggest driver of that business and we're watching obviously transmission the utility spending on medium and low voltage products.
It was weaker than we thought in the third quarter but not getting worse into the fourth.
So that's in our guidance.
So we need the utilities to get a little firmer on the spending broadly particularly for the medium voltage low voltage.
I feel like wind is there will be projects coming in first half of next year.
So we'll keep pushing hard on the cost side.
We continue to do well in our data communications cable business.
As I said the North American mining is off but transit is pushing up nicely.
And then we're working very hard in our electronics cable business.
So we are really drilling hard on the U.S.
side and just looking at everything from our manufacturing cost to supply chain and see if we can find more as well as I'm really proud of the product innovation that's occurring.
Latin America we've got the global team particularly the U.S.
really pouring it on there.
I think we have not made money in a number of those greenfields.
I see that burn rate coming down and I'm seeing in Mexico Peru the startup with new products in Brazil I'm seeing that come nicely underway and I'm proud of the U.S.
and global team as well as the local guys who got that done.
So Latin America while I don't expect a big breakout next year because it is somewhat natural resource-driven economies I feel good about our hand there.
We're making progress in sub-Sahara Africa it's profitable.
I think we can push up there.
In Europe we've taken sadly we've had a lot of associates go.
We've taken the cost through that and we're working on our business model there and have got a lot of strong talent joining that team there.
So I see the Europe as one of upside even though you wouldn't expect Europe to recover in a sharp way given the forward forecast.
But I think we're doing a nice job and I commend the team in Germany around the submarine business and getting those key projects through the cycle.
We're pushing hard on the communications both submarine in Europe as well as land.
We are exporting hard out of Europe into regional markets and our costs we keep working on.
So we have 7 factories there plus a small automotive plant that is actually an eighth but it's really tied to our U.S.
business.
But 8 7 factories the stress is high there.
It's been years of tough sweating but I kind of like our hand.
So I feel pretty good about our -- by that.
In Asia Pacific I think our team there has really put a Pan-Asian face on things.
We're seeing some nice synergies some strength in the Philippines.
We expect Thailand to perform pretty well.
And we're obviously also lowering the burn rate in India and I'm encouraged there.
So I think helping ourselves and if we get any pushup from the U.S.
construction market which has -- which has begun to push though you can see the numbers have slowed a bit recently.
But that obviously drives through the whole business.
So we're really planning to help ourselves but I can see upside in Europe I see upside in Latin America and south sub-Saharan Africa.
And frankly I think we can do better in the U.S.
But we'll communicate our forward view in due time.
But we've made some nice progress.
So I'm encouraged broadly on what I see but no we're not getting a huge pushup from a macro standpoint but that will come someday and we'll be ready for it.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Greg.
And so I guess on the cost and logistics side maybe tying that back into capacity I'm assuming utilization rates are still hovering in the low 70s as you talked about in the past.
But is there any plans -- are you happy with your capacity overall and the utilization's going to come with better volume or do you have any candidates for maybe some capacity reduction? Matt we always are looking for with a Lean culture more with less.
And we -- as you know -- and these are never happy decisions but we've closed a small electronics cable plant in the Chicago area and moved that volume into others.
You have to make those transfers well and seamless to your customers and then continue to grow the business.
So I would -- these factories generally are focused on certain types of product lines so they're not interchangeable as you well know.
But we'll continue to look and say can we retain the capacity through Lean to hit a market that we believe will recover over the planning cycle? And we want to be able to capture that volume.
But you're always looking at envelopes and we'll keep doing that and that's not been something that we've been shy about over the last 10 years.
So I think we'll look hard in North America to just test that.
When you get to the Rest of the World the geographies are pretty far apart.
There may be 1 or 2 small things that we'll study.
But that's always part of our work and then it's complex because you have to make sure that you have the right dialogue with your associates and those who may represent them.
But we're always doing that Matt and my first preference is to fill these and keep getting free entitlement capacity but we always are looking and have acted.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more for Brian.
Other income any help with modeling that in '14? There's a benefit this year.
Any thoughts on '14 at this point? Yes I would say Matt I would model it the way we think about it which is just to hold it constant.
So I would assume it's broadly -- just assume that we assume constant metals and constant currency.
So I would put -- and while obviously as we move forward we'll continue to have the mark-to-markets on large projects but those are -- that volatility is really not -- we're not able to forecast that.
So I would just assume it basically is sort of 0...
Research Division</strong> 0.
Got it.
As you move forward to '14.
Because some of this year has been burdened Matt by again depends on the product some of them are more metal-intensive than others and we have shifted increasingly to aluminum.
But we have even with the more recent recovery in metals pricing we have all year chased a market that has had a lower COMEX and again there's a global expression that COMEX is a surrogate for global metal prices.
So with our inventory that has a tail on it that's been higher than the market again just there's maybe an inflection we're getting closer but that's been a headwind both on the aluminum which is obviously percentage wise it's 10% and 15% increments versus copper which moves even more.
But that's been a headwind.
So we're planning on that to be as Brian said to be not a headwind next year and we're getting close to that point.
Though even in the third quarter we still had our inventory valued at higher than the average market which was a significant headwind even though it was somewhat less as the quarter got on it was still a significant headwind.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Brian or Greg it wasn't clear to me.
The $8 million profit in Europe embedded this quarter is definitely an improvement from the last couple of quarters.
How much of that is better execution in the submarine business versus sort of the rest of the platform there? Well submarine is an important part there.
And I'm actually encouraged by the submarine execution as well as -- and it's moving into profitability in the submarine business.
Again this project completion accounting but I'm feeling better though I take nothing for granted there.
I'm also encouraged by just our positioning in Europe relative to opportunities in the market this year and going and primarily through next year.
But we're still seeing a profitable France though France has got headwinds and then Spain hovering around that breakeven to slight depending on the month slight profitability so it's all on an operating basis.
And then some profitability in North Africa which is obviously a small part.
But I'm -- our largest movement has been in NSW but I would say broadly we're headed in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your commentary you talked about continued pricing pressure scenarios in the business.
Are there new product areas or geographies where pricing has become more challenging or is it much the same? The utility has been a bit sloppy.
Again I'm very proud of our aluminum construction cables business but that pricing has come off from where it was.
But we're pushing obviously to maximize that and get as much as the market will bear.
It's been an excellent product with a great legacy.
But yes I mean broadly the world demand -- overall unit demand in the wire and cable industry has been kind of flattish.
You can read the comments of both distributors and major competitors.
Everyone's a bit different but it's sort of -- it depends on the geography but relatively flattish or down some markets up in a few others.
But in that environment we really haven't popped through broadly the capacity utilizations that we have in the industry which are -- no one keeps a record of it but we think it's in the 70s somewhere and 60s and 80s in other places.
But eventually something has to give and we have to just keep taking cost out ourselves and be as Lean as we can possible be and also creative on the new product side.
But it's about the same from a utilization standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The $4.9 million in legal and tax costs that you called out in the quarter what are you -- I guess first how did that -- was that just proportionately in any of the geographies; and second how much are you expecting in the fourth quarter on that side? It was primarily in the Latin American countries Noelle and we're not expecting that in the fourth quarter.
So we're not expecting a repeat in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also do you have any sense that there were some channel inventory reductions or essentially destocking in the quarter? I wouldn't say that I saw that.
We read and I know you read what other cable makers are saying as well as key channel partners.
And other than some disappointment in demand I didn't sense that it was a destocking per se.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Just 2 brief modeling questions.
Brian what was copper and aluminum for you guys in the third quarter? And then also I know the tax rate stepped up this year.
Would you expect it to normalize in the next year if so to kind of what rate? Copper in the third quarter was this is COMEX 321 and aluminum was $0.93.
Those are per pound.
And on the tax rate I would consistent with what we said in the past the 45% on an adjusted basis is influenced by the mix of earnings as well as the lack of -- or the tax losses in certain jurisdictions.
So I think as we move into 2014 we would as Greg said earlier we're doing our work for 2014.
But I think our ability to improve those businesses will helped drive down the tax rate.
So I would say -- I think that we've said is assume the tax rate somewhere in the 36% to 40% for next year.
And again part of that will be predicated on continuing to improve the performance -- or getting a broader base of earnings across the company.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers remarks.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; Gregory Lampert our President and Chief Executive Officer of the Americas; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our fourth quarter and full year results.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide some comments on the company's outlook for 2014 followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provisions regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income in today's call.
Also please note the financial results discussed today are preliminary estimates due to the timing and ongoing preparation of the company's restated financial statements as described in the press release issued last night.
To begin please turn to Slide number 5 where we have summarized the key highlights for the fourth quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning.
Were pleased to report we closed out 2013 with all three of our segments delivering better than expected results.
This performance was driven by near record high aerial transmission product shipments in North America and Brazil as well as the third consecutive quarter of stable execution in our submarine turnkey project business.
Operating cash flow of $60 million for the fourth quarter was also strong due to the efficient management of working capital and the collection of submarine turnkey project milestone payments.
As you can see on Slide number 6 our results exceeded our expectations by all measures including metal pounds sold net sales adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS.
The companys North American electric utility and aluminum construction products businesses also generated solid results in the fourth quarter following a difficult third quarter.
Our fourth quarter results also reflect ongoing construction and infrastructure spending in Venezuela Asia Pacific and Central America.
Next on Slide 7 and 8 we summarize our full year results and the significant progress we made in a number of areas in 2013 as we continue to build for the long term and reinforce our one company global culture.
In North America the acquisitions of Prestolite Wire and lcan Cable performed above the investment case for 2013 and both businesses are now substantially integrated.
In Europe we have significantly reduced our cost structure over the past several years and continue to improve the cost utilization of our seven manufacturing facilities as we implemented a metric management system based on products and looking at Europe as one market with various sales channels.
We also made meaningful improvements in the execution of our submarine turnkey project business in Europe which reported better results over the last three quarters of 2013 following the difficult finish to 2012 and start to 2013.
In ROW we launched turnaround plans focused on improving the returns on investments in Brazil India Mexico Peru and South Africa which will be closely monitored.
Finally we strengthened our balance sheet with the expansion of the asset based revolving credit facility to potentially $1 billion by incorporating certain European assets while extending its maturity to 2018.
We also completed the restatement process and filed our restated financial statements with the SEC a couple of weeks ago.
Next on Slide 9 10 and 11 we have summarized the performance for each of our reportable segments.
First in North America on Slide 9 the strong performance of lcan Cable and Prestolite Wire in 2013 coupled with the continuing benefit of aerial transmission product shipments throughout the year more than offset typical seasonal patterns.
Also yesterday we announced the permanent closure of two electric utility manufacturing facilities as we can fully meet potential market requirements utilizing our other North American facilities.
This action is expected to result in a one-time charge to the income statement estimated to be in the range of $10 million to $12 million of which approximately one half is expected to be non-cash.
Second in ROW on Slide 10 the high unit run rate for 2014 principally reflects volume attributable to aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil as well as the acquisitions of Procables in Colombia and lcan Cable China.
Our business in China exceeded our expectations in 2013 due to the strong and well recognized premium branding in the local market.
For 2013 construction and infrastructure spending in Venezuela was strong as the business generated around $60 million of adjusted operating income.
Lastly on Slide 11 conditions in Europe and MED stabilized throughout 2013 albeit at low levels.
An important part of the stabilization was the progress our team made in improving our submarine turnkey project business.
Overall were encouraged by our results in Europe and MED which contributed $16 million of adjusted operating income in 2013 and benefited from meaningful cost reduction over the past several years.
Moving to Slide 12 net debt was $968 million at the end of 2013 a decrease of $27 million from the end of the third quarter.
The decrease in net debt is principally due to reductions in working capital as a result of normal seasonal trends including the collection of submarine turnkey project milestone payments.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations internal growth opportunities including product geographic expansion as well as its stock repurchase program and quarterly dividend.
We are committed to our shareholder capital deployment program and well utilize the remaining $160 million buyback authority in the context of economic conditions as well as the then prevailing market prices of the common stock of the company regulatory requirements financial covenants and alternative capital investment opportunities.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
Were pleased to have ended the year with solid momentum in key areas of our business.
Brian has just taken you through some of the highlights for 2013 which are encouraging as we carry this momentum into 2014.
As you can see on Slide 14 our focus for 2014 is on the enhancement of returns through productivity improvement and asset optimization.
This focus includes both developed and emerging markets and encompasses all aspects of our portfolio.
Just yesterday we announced the permanent closure of two electric utility plants in North America which we estimate will result in $3 million to $5 million of annual savings part of which is expected to be realized in the latter part of 2014.
Equally important is a continued improvement of our Greenfield investments where we have launched turnaround plants that will be closely monitored throughout 2014.
On Slide 15 and 16 we outlined our expectations for the full year including the opportunities and risks faced in 2014.
Were expecting to generate adjusted operating income in the range of $260 million to $320 million on low single digit volume growth.
Also we expect to generate operating cash flow in the range of $250 million to $325 million in 2014 principally due to better cash earnings and continued improvement in working capital management.
Our guidance range incorporates a global demand assumption consistent with 2013 exit run rate while the width of the range reflects the ongoing limited visibility in certain parts of our business as summarized in the opportunities and risks on Slide number 16.
Overall we are expecting to generate around $290 million of adjusted operating income at the midpoint of our range for 2014 which represents a 10% improvement year-over-year.
We expect the benefit of productivity gains in North America continuing submarine turnkey project execution in Europe and significant progress in the turnaround of Greenfields and ROW to more than offset lower operating results in Venezuela.
We are evaluating the potential impact of the recently extended price controls on our current outlook but assumes Venezuelas contribution in 2014 at the midpoint to be approximately $45 million which represents about $15 million headwind year-over-year.
On Slide 17 we provide our first quarter outlook.
Typically the first quarter is our slowest period of the year due to limited construction activity driven principally by weather and extended holidays.
The harsh weather in the north and Baltic seas during the first quarter is expected to restrict the installation of submarine power cables.
In Latin America and China the extended holiday schedules and facility shutdowns are anticipated to result in loss absorption in the first quarter as is the statutory leave requirement in Venezuela.
The company is also expecting demand weakness beyond seasonal trends in North America due to the frigid weather impacting construction projects.
Partially offsetting the impact of these typical seasonal patterns are the anticipated results in North America where operating margins are expected to return to the range of 6% assuming stable metal pricing.
Going forward into the second quarter the Company expects a very sharp improvement in operating results as construction activity accelerates and installation work on submarine projects in the North and Baltic Seas resumes.
For reference our adjusted operating income in 2013 improved approximately 80% sequentially from first quarter to second quarter.
We hope to do even better this year.
Finally over the last year weve made significant progress building our one company global culture and reinforcing our values and compliance programs.
We have strengthened our global operating systems expanded our Global Councils and created global roles in Talent Management Manufacturing Technology Supply Chain Sales and Communications products.
Overall our view of the intermediate and long term demand growth drivers in the companys key end markets is unchanged.
We are well positioned to capitalize in the late cycle recovery in energy and infrastructure related investments as well as construction activity in our end markets around the world.
Were committed to our balanced capital deployment program and remain focused on improving daily execution working capital management and returns in 2014.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? (Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
With the low volume growth expected for 2014 if you could maybe parse it out within the three regions you -- I guess three business segments regionally you operate.
Just from a broad macro view we certainly will be helping ourselves to hit the midpoint of our range in terms of our turnarounds of our Greenfields and continued cost out.
But were broadly seeing not a big kick in North America with non-resi.
Resi should help a bit.
We think theres a bit of pent up demand that will be released in the second quarter.
But were really on a broad view taking a sense that its broadly more of the same relative to 2013 in terms of unit demand.
So the demand increases that we will execute are around new products or other things were doing to introduce a stronger footprint in certain markets.
But weve also entered the construction cables business for copper products which is a THHN product which is complementary of our overall construction package to our customer base which picks up pounds of it.
So were seeing very little market growth and I think Europe has bottomed.
Asia Pacific is sloppy with some headwinds in Thailand because of the political situation.
But were seeing more of the same.
Latin America I think well be helping ourselves there in terms of just some of the new investments and them coming up to speed that we made over the last year.
These are the Greenfields that we talk about.
And then some improved performance in NSW.
But I think in the end on a macro basis we see 2014 a lot like 2013 with a bit of puts and takes but were going to have to help our self.
U.S housing recovery is a good thing but we havent seen that really break out materially.
Thats helpful.
And I guess the second part of the question is just Venezuela the $15 million year-over-year headwind is significant.
But I think that the valuation was something like 40% to 45% on non-essential items.
I know you dont have any visibility maybe into the timing of that but that $15 million how much of I guess the evaluation have you baked in to get to that amount? And then -- yeah Ill just leave it there.
It's complicated because of the development of these price controls that have expanded and theyre now looking at how to apply that and a return on your cost is one of the measures.
There could be downside to our view because if there is an evaluation you would need to recover increased costs into the pricing.
Were trying to go through now how the implementation of the wall will work.
So I would look at it as weve got $40 million to $45 million at the current exchange rate which on a GAAP basis is 63 in there.
Historically if theres an evaluation you would offset that which had some lags from some sales price increases to reflect your higher cost.
And were looking at what the law will provide and allow.
Obviously this problem is well beyond us as you do have to get dollars approved.
So Bolivia has an official exchange rate to go by in our case copper.
For other companies it may be other components that go into final assembly there.
And the Venezuelans have approved those at those rates but they are -- as you see in the headlines theyre behind for us and others from making dollars available.
So you begin to have companies saying were not going to import any more materials until theres a catch up.
And this story was breaking of course in todays journal yet again.
So its fluid and represents some downside risk.
Theres a possibility that we could over perform but I guess I would see more downside than upside in our thinking around $44ish million or 13% to 15% of our operating income.
But well have to see.
Thats very helpful understanding its a very fluid situation.
Ill hop back in the queue.
Thanks.
Hey Shawn Id also add that the trending from the fourth quarter of 2012 to the first quarter of 2013 remember in Venezuela we had a meaningful step down because of the statutory leave requirements and that phenomenon is baked into our guidance as well for 2014.
Thats probably why you see the sequential step down in expected first quarter earnings because of the results in Venezuela which we had expected even prior to this whole -- this discussion around the new pricing controls.
Got you.
So maybe a similar type of EBIT margin year-over-year then you would add back the incremental benefits youre seeing in terms of the Greenfield improvements? Shawn I lost you.
Can you ask that question again? I was just following up on Brians statement in that.
So the EBIT margin in ROW year-over-year subtract out the Venezuela pricing headwind and then maybe add back some of the Greenfield benefits youre seeing to get to maybe an appropriate EBIT margin for the first quarter.
Thats right.
And you think about  and you layer that in the cadence for the full year thats right.
We would expect improvements in the Greenfields as we go throughout the year and similar to this year in Venezuela where we had a better last nine months than we did first quarter of 2013.
Got you.
Thanks a lot guys.
Shawn we would expect our ROW businesses would headwind in Thailand because of the situation there which is impacting our business and Venezuela being something thats evolving every day.
Wed expect the rest of the ROW businesses to improve materially over the year.
In part this is a Greenfield improvement and weve also seen of course the NSW business the submarine business improve nicely over the second half of last year which again is a complicated business.
But wed expect them to improve and again we have to perform and lots of stuff happens but thats encouraging.
But our overall demand scenario is -- from an industry standpoint is probably very little growth probably less than our own internal forecast which were helping ourselves with.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson.
Your line is open.
On the first quarter outlook it looks like youre guiding revenue above prior year levels.
So there were just earnings below.
And so Im just trying to understand are you expecting a shift in contribution from higher profit regions to lower profit regions or is the metal price headwind that concerns you? Just walk me through that a little bit more.
Brent when we think about the first quarter as we said we see North America at about that 6% operating margin which in fact was better in 2013 but as we said lcan Cable came in very strong in the first quarter of last year.
So we certainly feel good around the North American business.
And then the other pieces as we head into the first quarter and again consistent with what we  the seasonal trends we experienced in the last couple of years.
So we have generally a weaker first quarter in Europe and MED.
And again mainly simply the weather phenomenon for these offshore projects.
So again its a meaningful sequential step down from Q4 of 2013 to the first quarter.
And then in Latin America the same phenomenon.
So both the -- typically the first quarter is a slower period.
Brent as we said in the call moving from -- so first quarter is what it is that we just described.
And as we move to the second quarter last year we were up about I think we said about 85% 90% from first quarter to second quarter.
And we saw meaningful improvement in 2013 in the European and MED and ROW businesses sequentially.
And so our expectation is well see that again this year.
And then in North America whereas in 2013 we had a very strong first quarter which now we see more of a as we said more of a seasonal first quarter and a nice step up from Q1 to Q2 in 2014 on the North American business.
Okay.
Thanks for that Brian.
And then when you think about the full year outlook and maybe arriving at the higher end of that range $320 million do you need to see a certain level of stability in certain key regions to get there? Can you walk me through some scenarios that you see that could play out to get you there? Yeah.
Brent the keys there are going to be the North American market I think just in terms of scale for the company.
Clearly its a big geographic area for us and a meaningful contributor.
So North America U.S and Canadian markets will be critical to watch.
I think in Europe and MED the continued execution on the offshore projects will be a very important part of our 2014 and obviously were watching that very closely.
The stabilization of our businesses in the classic businesses or our flow businesses in the rest of Europe and our high voltage underground business will be also important but again we know and everyone knows the economic headwinds were dealing with in Europe.
In ROW clearly we talked a great deal about Venezuela.
Our turnaround and improvement in Brazil will be very important as well.
Thats a meaningful market for us.
Central America and then Asia Pacific as Greg mentioned very important.
Our businesses in Asia have been very good businesses performing very well.
Were wrestling with some of the follow on effect of the geopolitical situation in Thailand but were managing through that.
So wed like to see that get more clarity to it and I think that would be a help for our business.
But I think those are the key -- so in summary Id say North America is the project business its Asia and its some of the Latin countries that are in regions that I mentioned.
Okay.
And then just one more and Ill turn it over.
With the investigation and restatements now behind you are you at a point of looking more at investments and growth again in kind of this? So how are you thinking about Greenfield investments versus acquisitions? I would say we have a share authorization thats been approved.
Were watching that and looking at investment inside the company.
Wed like to put cash out and were really focused on returning capital.
We expect to spend less than depreciation.
As investors have seen the Alcan Prestolite are acquisitions that worked well were very strategic and had a very good risk reward I think to them and with synergies.
So weve always got that in mind but I would say we would not contemplate though I never say never a material Greenfield of the scale that we undertook.
We did those as you know when we had strategic goals and developing country assets were priced very fully and we decided -- and in some cases trying to find quality assets.
So we undertook them.
We need to earn a return on those and they are pointing in the right direction.
So I would say a major Greenfield highly unlikely.
A movement into a new geography beyond where our concentration is is we are very global so I would say that would be unlikely but again would never rule it out.
Were more focused on just doing the job with the capital we have.
Theres a fair amount of churn in the wire and cable business a lot of stress globally maybe less so in the U.S but stress globally and you can read the releases of a lot of these companies.
And weve been choiceful and again principally internally focused and customer growth focused as well as new product development.
You saw the kind of success were having around the new products.
So I think again well be mindful of whats going on out there.
Well be reflective of things that have a very fine risk reward but I would say that bar is quite high and we also look at General Cable as an asset which is alternative use of capital.
So we have a dividend.
We have an authorized stock buyback and were very focused on the business.
But it would be silly to not be watching the moves in the industry as I said which are struggling with excess capacity in many markets and poor return.
So well help ourselves.
Well not be close minded to those and I would be doubtful of any material Greenfield internally and CapEx should be less than depreciation at least for 2014 and for the foreseeable future.
This is again around our lean culture more with less.
Weve got great assets.
Theres some places to improve them and well spend money there but we hope to generate a lot of free operating cash.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Congratulations on a nice quarter.
First I just wanted to circle back to first quarter EBIT guidance.
I understand the 6% margin you're guiding to in North America is down a bit year over year but it still seems pretty strong considering the weather impacts that you're talking about.
So is there any benefit from mix or anything like that that's contributing to that -- what I view as relatively strong margin? I think some of it is mix some of the mix in our industrial and specialty businesses.
I would say it continues to be a credit to our team in terms of continuing to focus on cost reduction and cost containment and I think it continues to be the benefit of the productivity in the lean.
I do think -- its not an excuse but I think we have a strong comp from the first quarter of last year because of the strength of the lcan Cable business.
But I think again thats how Im thinking about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And are you -- can you talk about if you're expecting -- it looks like you may be expecting a lawsuit in NSW in the first quarter can you comment on that? And then comment longer-term obviously last year you had some challenges with the weather how you're thinking about and working to get this business profitable even through the tougher winter quarters? Noelle in a percentage of completion accounting if youre not installing youre not hitting milestones around that.
And we do have some work that can go on but limited and we do make other products within NSW.
But basically we have fixed cost that is there that goes -- that begins to put cables in the water as the weather begins to break in March.
We have as you know our power cable submarine communications as well as some oil and gas other things.
So I would look at NSW over a year it was nicely profitable in the fourth quarter and will operate somewhere in the breakeven zip code in the first quarter operating basis.
But given the lower volumes I think the team there has done a great job on working with the works council and looking at the overheads and our product niches that are less seasonal but the bulk of it is really tied to the North and Baltic seas and there isnt a lot that goes on there.
So Im hopeful that we will make money over the year in NSW and continue to improve our return on capital.
It hasnt required a lot of investment.
We have that well done.
So also pushing out cash which it did in the fourth quarter is important.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And could you then expand on the plant closures the utility plant closures talk about where these plants were located if they're more tied to distribution or transmission and then just comment on if you're taking some capacity or really just shifting it to other areas? Its principally transmission.
We have ample capability with our global footprint and North American footprint to meet that market.
This was a facility in Canada.
We have multiple facilities in Canada in French speaking Canada.
Particularly (inaudible) and then Roseburg Oregon was a facility that came with Alcan.
It was not operating when it came.
And again with our culture of more with less we dont think we need to restart that facility and well use the equipment to debottleneck wherever in the world as needed.
So we continue to look at we took a small electronics facility out.
And again these are not easy things because were talking about associates and peoples livelihood but weve got to make sure that we can be a cost leader in this segment.
So we continue to look at whats happening from demand trends what is our potential throughput as it keeps getting better and what envelopes we need to support that.
And again weve got 55 to 60 plants around the world.
As you know the cable industry principally has to meet local standards and its heavy.
So its products these plants arent interchangeable.
So its not a simple thing but wherever we see a chance to focus factories or do more with less or create sales within existing factories work cells well do it.
And this is just two of the decisions that we have taken but well continue to look at that Noelle and when we see an opportunity to preserve our upside but pull cost out and improve return on capital thats our job.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall from BB&amp;T.
Your line is open.
Im going to continue on the Greenfield burn rate reductions.
Can you remind us what the pain was in 2013 from some of these targeted facilities and what's the expected improvement? Whats your targeted improvement for 2014? Matthew the way were thinking about 2014 is a target of about a $25 million improvement on the Greenfields.
And included in there would be another say  within there say another 5 to 10 improvement in NSW.
So as we said were really pleased with what the team in Germany has done to stabilize that business and continue the execution.
And obviously we talked about having these turnaround plans in place for the other locations and were monitoring and well evaluate as we move forward on the other locations as well.
Our internal objectives Matt and their accomplishment of those objectives is -- theres a variety of outcomes obviously along that.
So if were not on track well look at these assets and say are we making progress whats the rate of progress and look at it strategically as well.
So well continue to take this a month at a time and were focused on all those assets daily.
But we need to make the progress and satisfy ourselves.
But it certainly wont be linear Matt.
These things have breakthroughs and obviously competitive.
Circumstances can change as well but well be all over it.
Perfect.
Okay on the metals assumptions side it appears that at least what you put in the release the assumptions included in your guidance are a touch above the current spot prices if -- I think my data is right.
Can you talk about why that is? And the second part of a question if we just assume the current spot environment and we carry that through for the rest of year what is the tailwind that you would see in 2014 versus 2013? I dont have the spot charts in front of me but February the spot was a lot higher than March in some of the services it may be picking up March which I think is 324 or 5 February.
Yesterday was 331 Len 32? But broadly Matt theres a backwardation where forward prices look lower than -- Im sorry the forward prices are lower than current prices if you look through the next year but the current price is in the 330 range.
So I would say it was a headwind.
We dont have a model that says what it represents on a gross basis.
If were selling 700 million of copper at $0.10 is a $70 million headwind.
And then you have some stickiness.
It depends on capacity utilization.
Some of it has been hedged because its against contracts.
But copper and to a lesser extent aluminum are material to this.
But again its been tricky because its been volatile and utilization continues to be fairly low in the industry some markets harder than others.
But it would be a bit of a tailwind if you withhold parts of last year here.
Okay.
And so you mentioned some other efficiency measures that you've taken.
I know I talked to Len and Brian in the past about lean and you mentioned your lean culture.
Can you talk about moves that were made whether they were lean or not there were made in 2013 that weren't fully recognized benefits weren't fully recognized in 2013 and those give you additional visibility in 2014 and how much that would be? We took out a facility in electronics that we think will improve our electronic cable.
Thats the multi conductor cable thats used in broadcast and industrial applications.
So thats worth a bit and is reflected in our guidance.
Well go through these two things now with these two facilities which some of that will show up later.
I think the big move was really NSW getting its footing in very complicated project management and a new market.
The culture is such that we expect without volume and without raw material price increases or decreases to take cost out every year.
And thats been very strong culturally in North America.
Now with our global manufacturing leadership under Mark Thackeray well look for ways to accelerate that.
Theres also a purchasing council.
But theres been activity and traction.
Were going to look for more of that.
But I wouldnt say its partially -- that shows up in our operating margins in the first quarter.
Some of it sadly you give back to the market and some of it you might keep.
Well keep more of it if we see utilization pick up in the industry.
Anything Greg Lampert or Brian Len that Ive missed? Youve covered it.
Weve taken out hundreds and hundreds of people in Europe.
Were trying to focus those factories around core what they do best.
Now obviously it shows up in our numbers but its still -- its been almost table stakes to remain in business as were beginning to see some stabilization in Europe.
But it hasnt -- you would argue our bottom line would be materially worse if we hadnt done that.
But as you know we spend $40 million approximately in getting cost out in Europe over the last years.
And one follow-on Brian did you mention a tax rate for 2014? We said 40% Matt.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Farber from CL King.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Just two questions.
Can you speak to if you can get your volumes up to mid 6% maybe on an ongoing basis how we should think about just the operating leverage that you could potentially get.
Could you get a mid-teens operating leverage on that steady volume growth? And then also just even theoretical how should we think about your liquidity in Venezuela because it's obviously a significant part of your cash balance? Yeah the operating -- I think your numbers it depends on the product.
Metals with the rod strip and transmission I have a tendency which move around in a very metal intensive -- Im thinking broadly if we can start running multi-conductor and portable cord and distribution cables for utilities if we can run that harder that should be at mid the 15% net contribution margin as long as I havent bumped up against a constraint.
Thats without a cost price against a production constraint and thats part of the lean culture and that allows us in some ways to contemplate continuing to get more capacity which is with the same assets because they change over time scrap waste et cetera.
So that would be a fair number particularly on the bulk insulated businesses that we do the mainstream businesses.
Clearly some products have higher contribution margins than that but I would say on average thats probably a good number.
Ill let Brian take the Venezuelan question but we clearly think about our liquidity without Venezuela which weve only pulled -- able to pull I think over the years maybe $13 million of cash out of there.
So its a separate kind of thought.
But Brian go ahead.
Gary I would say -- just on both your points on the operating leverage side I think assuming we get these high volumes in the short term on our sensitized opportunities and risk slide youd see us at the top end or even exceeding the range weve provided.
But I think longer term I think in the end the earnings potential in the business is what weve been talking about a great deal as we get the volume leverage.
So much of the opportunity in the business is on the pricing side once you get those volumes.
I think on the Venezuelan question as you can see from our slide deck we show the Venezuelan cash as Greg mentioned.
At the end of the year we had about $194 million of cash in Venezuela and global we saw hundreds of millions of dollars of global liquidity.
So were not -- as weve talked for quite some time Venezuela is what it is.
We monitor it but have sufficient liquidity without Venezuela.
Were comfortable with our overall profile.
And is it fair to assume this 40% tax rate is for the ongoing tax rate even beyond this year or you think it could move around? My intention would be that we continue to broaden our earnings base and improve the Greenfields and I think all that should -- if that all works out should help to drive the rate lower.
Thats what keeps it.
theres a couple of phenomenon that will keep the rate more elevated than where I would like it to be or where it can be as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Just a few brief follow-ups.
Brian what was the metal pounds for copper and aluminum that you guys experienced in the fourth quarter? The price per pound excuse me.
The actual pricing was $3.31 and $0.92; $3.31 copper $0.92 aluminum.
And then on the two plant closures the $3 million to $5 million of savings when would you expect that to fully hit the P&amp;L in terms of the benefit? I would expect the full benefit in 2015 but we believe well get part of that in 2014 Shawn.
Got you.
And the charge will that all fall in the first quarter or spread out through the year? I dont have a definitive answer yet partly because we need to obviously run we need to run through some of the decisions around the equipment et cetera.
But I would expect given that the decision was made basically right now or in the last week or so that part of it would fall into the first quarter and then thered be some that comes maybe in the rest of the year.
But Shawn well call that out as well and be very clear about how that falls.
Perfect.
And then if my math is right I think your SG&amp;A was up a little bit on a dollar basis sequentially as well as year over year.
Just if you could speak about how you think SG&amp;A dollars will be on a year-over-year basis let's say assuming Alcan -- without the Alcan dynamics? Sure.
I would say I think about it as a run rate of $120 million per quarter plus or minus.
There was a step up from Q3 to Q4 nothing terribly abnormal in there.
I think partly some of the seasonality with our Europe and MED businesses.
But I would think about it as $120 million plus or minus.
Got you.
The final thing would be interest expense on a non-GAAP basis so backing out the convert.
I would say in the range of $105 million plus or minus.
Obviously with the $355 million convert now retired our non-GAAP is a little cleaner.
We still have the long dated convert thats a much smaller impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson.
Your line is open.
Greg I thought I heard you mention earlier in the call you entered the construction cable business for copper products.
Could you just clarify that? Yeah.
we have been in the business last year with -- were in the business around the world but in North America we make aluminum products for construction applications which came through Alcan which has been a strong business for us and very complementary to our product profile has been -- the THHN and machine tool wire and things that travel on a project or a drumbeat for the distributor.
So we already control internally we have logistics.
Its a fixed cost.
We have a very comprehensive selling arm and we look at it is last year we started bringing product from Mexico and Central America from our factories.
And this year as we look at that supply chain and this is again back to the wire and cable we think it will be more cost effective running that product in existing envelopes in the U.S.
It allows us to improve our turns and cycle times transit et cetera.
So expect to see us certainly not a major player but a significant enough player to be important to our customer base when they would like to see that drumbeat or theres a project thats being bid.
And that is something that well grow into prudently and strategically but I think its a good opportunity for us given the kind of assets weve already deployed.
But maybe Ill ask Greg Lampert who as I think our investors know is responsible for Americas business which is the largest part of General Cable to comment more specifically.
Greg? Brent I would say its going to be as Greg pointed out a modest business.
I think its very complementary to the products we sell to other customers.
And for us the investment was relatively small to reenter this business in terms of U.S manufacturing because we have a lot of the assets already in our plants.
So with very small capital investment we can product THHN to complement our other products in a modest way.
Its a very small investment.
The bigger investment is obviously just the working capital to support that.
but were already in that -- I see it as a business thats depending upon market and demand in the $100 million range maybe a bit more in terms of -- and that will throw off our numbers a little bit because its metal intensive.
But I think important for our customers.
Theyve been calling for it.
Its a business were a leader in the world in some of the zero halogen and cables that pull easily.
We have a lot of that knowhow in Europe and again were good at this.
And I think on a very modest way under current envelopes we own the majority of the fixed cost to do this.
So its not a big investment decision and its already been done.
So were in the business.
Weve been in business for a year.
Were just switching our source of supply to two of our U.S facilities who do other things but this will be part of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Just a few follow-ups.
First just a question going back to the copper and I think why we're seeing maybe a bit of a difference between the spot LME and what you guys are talking about.
I think you're including the Midwest premium in your aluminum prices.
Is that true? Correct.
You have to take out -- thats gone up materially with tightness in that market but its currently in the $0.15 $0.16 range I think or over -- Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
And second I think obviously strong transmission shipments in the quarter.
Some of those were associated with projects that you talked about being delayed in the third quarter.
Do you like you shipped most of those delayed projects in the fourth quarter or is there still some catch-up in the first? Youre talking about catch up in North America on transmission in the first quarter? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> In transmission you talked about in the third quarter when you reported you talked about maybe -- I think you talked about 6.5 million metal pounds sold of projects that have been deferred from the third quarter into the fourth and first.
So it looks that some of those delayed projects shipped in the fourth quarter.
I'm just wondering if there's anything that was delayed in the third quarter that still needs to ship at this point.
Noelle its Brian.
I think we had a fair amount that shipped in the fourth quarter.
Theres some thats coming in the first quarter.
But we were pleased that so much of it came through in the fourth quarter.
Obviously we had -- I think we set a near record volume and that reflects that a lot of it came through in Q4.
Noelle generally I would say December was -- we never know.
In our last call we said we never quite know about December in terms of utility customers and channel partners how they think about December and obviously weather begins to impact us.
So December is always a tough month.
I would say generally December was better than we had anticipated meaning demand kept coming through which showed up in the numbers in part.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us your current backlog of turnkey projects? Noelle this is Len.
Its roughly $400 million today.
There are no further questions at this time.
General Cable I turn the call back over to you.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Denise and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to the General Cable Corporation's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any obligation -- objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer; Greg Lampert our President and Chief Executive Officer of the Americas; and Bob Siverd our General Counsel.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an overview by Brian Robinson of our first quarter results including an update on our second quarter and full year outlook.
Secondly Greg Kenny will provide comments on key themes and initiatives for 2014 followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we will refer to adjusted operating income in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5 where we have summarized the financial results for the first quarter.
With that I'll turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning.
Overall we managed through a number of challenges in the first quarter reporting adjusted operating income at the upper end of our revised range.
The first quarter is seasonally our slowest period of the year which was impacted by events in Venezuela extreme winter weather in North America and lower copper prices in the latter portion of the quarter.
Importantly we experienced sharp sequential improvement in March unit volume and have seen a similar trend in April.
We're focused on the construction season including utility maintenance activities and production and installation of submarine and land turnkey products in Europe which we expect when combined with the improvement of our greenfields will result in a stronger second quarter and second half of the year.
We will discuss the full year outlook in few slides but first I want to take you through the first quarter in more detail on Slides 5 and 6.
On Slide #5 year-over-year the 3% decline in unit volume and metal adjusted net sales was principally due to the impact of the extreme winter weather in North America as well as stronger electric utility product shipments in Europe and Med during the first quarter of 2013.
Partially offsetting these trends were metal pounds sold in Latin America which reflect the shipment of metal-intensive products such as aerial transmission cable in Brazil and copper rodding in Chile.
Adjusted operating income for the first quarter versus the prior year reflect the negative impact of the social unrest in Venezuela and Thailand and the impact of the extreme winter in North America as well as the strong contribution of Alcan Cable reported in the first quarter of 2013.
Partially offsetting these trends were the improved results reported in Europe due the continued execution of our submarine turnkey project business again on a seasonally-adjusted basis.
Other expense principally reflects the impact of the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet at the exchange rate of VEF 10.8 to each U.S.
dollar.
Next on Slide 6 sequential unit volume was down 9% which is slightly greater than typical seasonal declines due to the extreme winter in North America as well as the near-record-high shipments of aerial transmission cables in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Europe was about as expected seasonally in terms of volume as was ROW excluding Venezuela.
Sequentially adjusted operating income principally reflects the impact of the social unrest and pricing controls in Venezuela seasonally slower production and installation activity in the company's submarine turnkey project business and the impact of seasonally lower global unit volume.
On Slide 7 and 8 we have provided our second quarter and full year outlook which does not include any contribution from Venezuela given the ongoing challenges in the local market.
On Slide 7 net sales in global unit volume are expected to increase in the second quarter due to seasonal demand patterns.
However given the recent decline in copper prices the company now expects adjusted operating income to be in the range of $45 million to $60 million at current metals as of April 29.
The company estimates the impact of the lower copper price environment on operating results in the second quarter to be in the range of $15 million to $20 million.
On Slide 8 (sic) [9] for the full year 2014 we expect adjusted operating income at around the low end of the range of $230 million which represents an improvement of 15% versus 2013; global unit volume which is expected to be up in the low single-digit range year-over-year.
Adjusted operating income for 2014 is expected to improve year-over-year as productivity gains and the performance of greenfields including the submarine turnkey project business gather momentum as we move into the second half of the year.
The company also expects the impact of the social unrest in Thailand to subside in the second half of the year.
Operating cash flow is expected to be strong in 2014 in the range of $259 at the midpoint.
This is down slightly from our previous outlook due to lower anticipated cash earnings.
Moving to Slide 11 (sic) [10].
Net debt was $1.152 million (sic) [$1 152 million] at the end of the first quarter an increase of $184 million from the end of the year.
The increase in net debt is principally the result of higher working capital requirements due to the normal seasonal trends as the company invested in inventory in North America and ROW during the first quarter.
The impact of the change in the Venezuelan currency exchange rate also contributed to the increase in net debt as the value of the company's cash held in bolivars and Venezuela was reduced by $81 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations internal growth opportunities including product and geographic expansion as well as shareholder capital deployment.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Thank you Brian and good morning everyone.
Our focus for 2014 is on the enhancement of returns through productivity improvement and asset optimization.
This focus includes both developed and emerging markets and encompasses all aspects of our portfolio.
For 2014 we expect the benefit of productivity gains in North America continuing submarine turnkey project execution in Europe and progress on the turnaround of greenfields in ROW to more than offset the near-term copper headwinds expected in the second quarter as we continue to generate momentum into the latter half of the year.
We are moving quickly on the permanent closure of 2 electric utility plants in North America announced in February which we estimate will result in $3 million to $5 million in annual savings part of which we expect to realize in the latter part of 2014.
We're also making progress on our greenfield turnaround plans which are tracking in line with our expectations.
Overall our view of the immediate and long-term demand growth drivers in the company's key end markets is unchanged.
We are well positioned in each of our end markets to capitalize in a late cyclical recovery in energy infrastructure and other infrastructure-related investments as well as construction activity throughout the world.
The management transition in Europe is going smoothly and we have a number of strong candidates to replace our retiring general counsel.
We are committed to our balanced capital deployment program and remain focused on improving daily execution working capital management and returns in 2014.
In the first quarter we repurchased $31 million or 2% of our common shares and have returned approximately $95 million to shareholders over the last 15 months.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
With Venezuela now out of the guidance what incremental risk does Venezuela present to business going forward either in terms of write-downs other factors that maybe I'm not thinking of? Yes Shawn it's Brian.
Partly as you can see in the way I'm talking about the business how we've carved Venezuela out to the side given the volatility on the ground there and obviously the knock -- the carry-on effect to our results.
As we said we recorded a devaluation charge in the quarter which is in the $83 million kind of area.
If you -- what's left in terms of being denominated to local currency for example we wrote the thing [ph] All way down to 0 would be about $100 million.
But there's a number of different inputs and factors that -- clearly there's a lot happening with respect to the exchange rate mechanisms and the like.
So we'll see or will continue to separately discuss Venezuela.
Yes Shawn there's a obviously high inflation there.
There's workers that are eager for -- to keep up with inflation.
We import copper; they don't have any.
And then they authorize that and then need the dollars obviously to pay that.
So we'll go ahead and buy copper from places like Chile and then import it and then they release dollars but we have to watch closely their release rates and do they have the dollars to support that.
And then of course that business is about 80% copper dependent which is imported; and 20% or 30% aluminum which is negative to the country in terms of supply.
The other thing we have as you know is also which is being looked -- taken apart now is the price control environment which was there in part historically but now it's there comprehensively.
Okay.
I guess the other topic I just want to look -- touch on is you need some pretty strong I guess -- or some good volume growth into the back half of the year kind of -- if you could update us just in terms of -- particularly in North America just kind of what you're seeing in terms of the drivers particularly construction? Any green shoots beyond the seasonal uptick right now? Well I've got Greg Lampert with me who as you know is responsible for the Americas and he's just come back from meeting a lot of our channel partners.
I'll turn it over to Greg.
Sure Shawn.
And I would say that we had a weaker first quarter in transmission cables certainly and that's kind of a project backlog business.
So we have some upside in transmission cables.
We move forward certainly January February were very difficult months due to the weather conditions in most of the U.S.
So we're already seeing improved volume as the quarter wore on into March and April.
So we still feel good about the year again kind of a mid-single digit kind of growth rate depending on the some of the project activity on the transmission side.
Shawn overall it's spotty so stuff tied to coal generation is down; wind is pretty good; utility transmission we think will be off about 10% for the year but it's still at a very high level.
The construction is really -- we see us up low-single digits in the distribution low-voltage area.
So that's to the utilities which is somewhat maintenance reinforcement and also new construction related so it's up.
It would be up about 4% is our thinking now.
But it's fairly choppy but we're cautiously optimistic Shawn.
But the first quarter cost us both production days as well as customer demand was quite weak; the rally late in March.
And just last will be very brief.
Do you expect to be active with the buyback during the quarter? Shawn we will comment specifically on what we'll do.
We have $75 million left for the full year and we'll consider that in light of our results or cash flow performance and financial covenants so -- or that's called baskets.
So I can't -- I won't comment specifically on the quarter.
Your next question comes from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> For my first question can you talk about how March and April orders were up? On a run rate basis I would say Noelle it's probably low-single digits maybe it's 5%.
But obviously we had a tough January and February particularly in North America with the weather.
So the positive is clearly that the trend is in the right direction after a very difficult couple of months.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
I was hoping you could go back to your earnings tower that you laid out at your Investor Day of $500 million to $600 million over the next 5-ish years.
I think that included some contribution from Venezuela.
How are you thinking about that at this point kind of pulling Venezuela out of the equation? Yes we had Venezuela in there really sideways when we roll it out over that 4 5 year period.
And also I would say it's in many ways it's -- it was in there for say $30 to -- in that $30 million to $45 million range.
So I would say that -- the earnings power really -- and you see in that slide and you think about the boxes not much of that -- or any of that growth is really around Venezuela.
So I think there's enough room there that given the inherent earnings potential both in the North American business and really all the businesses that that model is still appropriate.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and then I -- just kind of stick in there I think you get to that target that you laid out.
You were talking about a mid-single-digit sort of compound annual growth rate over that 5-year period.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about just how you see the pace or the rate of that growth kind of emerging? Do you think '15 could be a bit higher than that just how you are thinking about that at this point? We haven't really gone and done our planning around '15 yet.
No I see the North America we'll watch obviously the wind legislation which has been a driver of the business; solar; the strength of the construction recovery in Europe.
No we're seeing some pretty decent work on the transmission grid interconnects.
Our French unit is picking up.
We're motoring through some of those complex projects that will -- should be completing at NSW that are a couple of years now in the works.
So we've got to make sure that we're continuing to build our submarine and energy wind businesses.
But Philippines remains strong and I think Thailand is recovering though it's still unstable.
We're seeing a pickup in strengthening in Mexico and Central America which is again some good work with the combined teams.
But I'm not calling a big breakout in terms of demand.
It would be nice to see one but I don't -- I think we have to continue to help ourselves Noelle so we're planning on modest demand recovery.
And then we got to keep working on cost.
And by cost not just the continuous improvement on the factory floor but also looking at work streams in the selling general and administrative costs and applying the same Lean principles there and driving the SG&amp;A as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and one last question can you just help me understand given -- I was actually pleasantly surprised by the margin in North America in light of the weather headwinds in the quarter.
Was there anything unusual in the margin or in the profit that benefited the first quarter? No Noelle I wouldn't say there was anything unusual.
I think it's continued focus on the productivity and the cost containment.
But nothing unusual in North American no.
Your next question comes from Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> So actually I'll follow up on that last question.
If you look at the pre-released EBIT guidance range looks like you came in right at the upper end of that range.
Can you talk about anything that -- any of the items that might have surprised to the upside pre-release date to end the quarter? Yes Matt it's Brian.
I -- not going to call anything out particularly.
Clearly it was given the volatility in the metals and then the challenges we had in the business particularly in North America in February the visibility was clearly challenged.
But I mean clearly the positive is we ended up at the high end of our expectations and we'll continue to build off of that.
But I don't know that I'd call anything out as being massively or singularly surprising to the upside.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And also following up on Greg's SG&amp;A comments can you give us some kind of idea about where that level should be on a dollar basis going forward? And then Greg you talked to us.
I think you kind of alluded to focusing on maybe some SG&amp;A adjustments or some savings or some efficiencies.
I don't know how you want put it.
But can you quantify any targeted savings that you might have on that line? No we're doing that work now.
We have tens of million we're targeting internally principally in the manufacturing.
In the SG&amp;A is also commissions we use both direct sales as well as agent commissions.
So there's -- some of that is -- varies with volume on the agent side.
So it would be premature to say that -- to give you a target.
We're doing that right now.
Brian and Sonya Reed who run HR -- Brian obviously on the phone now along with the regional operating people are going through this bottoms up.
And that work is underway now to probe that and see where there's waste in the system either process waste or other steps we can take.
And that's everything from simple things as travel to discretionary to headcount and so on.
So we're doing all that and as we have done that we scrubbed it bottom up.
We may talk directionally but in the end this was a big simultaneous equation.
We need to be pushing on the shop floor and on the SG&amp;A.
Our business changes a bit in -- and the reason -- in China we use a heavy direct selling.
So the SG&amp;A is naturally higher.
We actually get a return on that effort.
So I dont want to be simplistic on simple ratios because the business mix has different things.
But we're going to take it apart dollar by dollar and we do that annually.
But the old term I guess is zero-based budgets.
Sorry from a numbers perspective I would say before these actions that there's $480 million to $500 million kind of run rate on the SG&amp;A for the year.
And obviously every point we can get out of this is broadly $5 million or $0.08 of earnings or something along those lines.
So clearly the focus I think we run -- as we've always do -- as we said we kind of run the company very hard but clearly we will do the work as Greg just mentioned to push it even further.
Research Division</strong> Okay right.
Well the $485 million to $500 million definitely looks like it's a little higher than my numbers so maybe the next question will help fill in that blank.
The greenfield improvements you talked about I think Greg you said you're on track there.
Can you remind us of the savings? And then as expected in '14 and then as we move out beyond '14 are there items that will help '15 as well? Or is there going to be further improvement in '15? I would say we continue -- without getting specific on this phone call we continue to measure our rate of improvement on these assets.
And then of course we have to constantly look at is that -- are we satisfied with where we'll be and are we on track for that recovery? The other thing we're doing is continuing to look at is more with less which says we announced 2 facilities.
We keep looking at envelopes and then demand projections and obviously we want to make sure that we have enough surge capacity to meet demand.
But I would say that's an ongoing effort as well and if we take any further decisions that would impact 2015 surely.
But we dont -- this is complicated work and you also want to make sure that you're getting a return on it and you can maintain your positions in the market.
So that's -- this is a -- we're very very focused as we've said on this and sweating the assets as well as being superb on the delivery to our customers and obviously with quality and perfect service being prerequisites.
But Matt we'll -- as we get into our planning cycle over the summer we'll -- we're continuing to do the work now.
We dont do planning neither strategic nor business at one set point; it's sort of continuous.
But we're going to drive hard in the SG&amp;A and we're going to continue to do the analysis which is not formula [ph]and is complicated in terms of envelopes served markets and ability to serve those markets with the envelopes we have or with less envelopes.
So that's ongoing work and I would say that's continuous but it's clearly top of mind.
Your next question comes from Scott Levine [ph] from Meridian [ph].
I was wondering as an investor in the company when we could expect to cease to hear the word disappointing in the sell-side performance? You've reported the last 12 quarters and on 75% of those quarters the equity price has declined.
In addition a second question would be can we expect this quarter to be the bottom? There's been 2 reset guidance and we're looking at another reset of guidance in the second quarter and copper is now being embedded at $3.07.
So I guess all in all I mean are we finally looking at the bottom here? I'm sure you guys are watching your equity price.
Yes.
Well Scott [ph] obviously you nor I know what demand is going to look like in August.
But the -- and we don't know whether copper is going to be $2.75 or $3.25.
It affects us especially with this lackluster recovery globally where we're running at sort of 70% capacity utilization.
So it's really sloppy.
So I'm a big shareholder in the company.
And I would love this to be a bottom and we're pulling on every throttle we can Scott [ph].
But if you have any specific ideas we're open to it.
But yes I'm not happy with the facts set as they are.
And I would rather hinge you back to the build of this company from very little and the kind of run rate we had in the last cycle which may not be repeated but it was an extraordinary one and I think we optimized that.
But yes we got to go back and make sure we're delivering.
And again this is a big simultaneous equation in terms of market pricing and the input cost.
So I wish we had 2% variability demand and if we had known 1-year contracts but we dont.
That's not the nature of the business.
But I hope this is a bottoming Scott [ph] and as a major shareholder personally and for management we're all over this.
But we're disappointed with the recovery.
We've gone through everything from a theft -- in perfect hindsight we've done some things really well a lot of things and some things you'd say "Well if I know what I know now versus 5 years ago would we -- do we get a -- do we bat a thousand?" Certainly not.
But then if I batted 1 for 1 I'm not sure you'd want to be a holder of this company.
You'd be holding a exchange cable which is fallen by 90% and that's about it.
Right right.
I understand the growth of the company and all but do you feel that the process of at least managing where expectations have been over the last lets call it 12 quarters has fallen short? I mean where do you lie that? Part of investing is managing the expectations and it just seems like it's been a continual chase down as far -- to put it all on the price of copper? Yes and it's not Scott [ph].
We -- obviously we had worked through a theft in Brazil a very complex North Sea environment.
We're beginning to get that sorted out.
If you attended investment day you met the people who are running our turnkey business.
I'm proud of where we come.
North America which obviously was on its knees 5 years ago is holding the company through.
I think Europe is bottoming.
Developing world you read it every day it's choppy because China does make a difference.
But we call it as we see it.
Obviously we have to range it.
But some time ago we were accused of being too conservative and we're happy when we can over-deliver as we did now but we call it in a range that seems appropriate to what we know at that time.
But yes I'd love to go river and price it.
I guess just final question I mean do you guys feel -- are strategic alternatives being looked at? I mean there's been transactions I believe in the market place around 8x EBITDA.
I mean the company seems to be not getting a fair valuation of the market regardless of the consistency of results.
Well Scott [ph] I think as a board we've been very provocative with ourselves and thinking through the assets.
Again we built this company from very little.
Then you go back and say "What's worked? What things may be only a single not a triple?" And we're diluting our time and resources.
So we talk about that.
We have always been open to -- we've been an acquirer.
There's lots of assets for sale now.
There are a few buyers.
And arguably some of these assets might maybe -- this maybe a time to buy some of them.
But right now we have been focused internally in sending cash as we have and if somebody has a better idea for the company then we have to listen if it's a serious idea.
So we've been -- we're open to any good ideas.
Again the business is complex and in terms of where our cash is and the number of places that we operate in.
So you got to -- it's not a simple equation of private-equity model as a following or whatever.
You got to do the homework and think through it as I'm sure an investor would.
But we are open as we have to be to serious ideas about how to unlock value in the company.
There is nothing today that I wouldn't do as a public company that -- all options to improve the business are on the table whether we're public or private.
So we're not constrained in our behavior.
What I have to do is think about our long term -- you can get silly in these things and just say "Well lets close everything we don't like today." That's -- that would be probably value destructive for our shareholders and probably make money for someone else's shareholders.
But we got to be balanced and thoughtful and provocative with ourselves.
So we got ahead and continue to challenge ourselves at the board level internally.
And I brought our Chairman Jack Welsh to the Investor Day in case anyone else had a better idea or wanted to engage him directly.
But we are an open group of board members and I think you understand that.
So I dont know what questions you may have directed to Jack but he was there in New York and it remains open.
Your next question comes from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I was -- just couple of follow-ups.
First just on the greenfield improvements given that that's a key area of focus maybe you could just go into some of the progress that you've been making so far talk about where you're having the most success where you're seeing a more challenged environment? And obviously anything you could give us in terms of quantification and year-over-year improvement would be helpful? Yes Noelle the -- we've seen a lot of good work on the production side leveraging the engineers globally.
I would say we're making progress.
We have a small greenfield in sub-Saharan Africa.
We are making progress.
Sub-Saharan Africa is profitable and we're getting capital out of there; that is working capital.
So Karl Zimmer has led that effort and I've been very pleased.
We're seeing nice movement in Mexico and that is a blow on that economy.
And we have a fine asset that there so I'd say Greg Lampert and his team have made nice progress.
We run Mexico and Central America together and we're a leader there.
So I'm been very pleased there.
The start-ups in Brazil in terms of some of the specialty products seem to be broadly on track.
The -- India which is really a -- we serve India from both Thailand as well as locally is behind where I'd like it to be.
And the -- I would say the NSW is really nicely stabilizing under Gnther.
And for those of people who met him at Investor Day he's an impressive guy and we're getting through those tough projects and obviously have to bring in more work and keep our ships busy.
And that's one that our delivery is good and I would say he is -- he's brought it a long way in the last year.
Peru is behind where I would like it to be.
But we're -- we had a distribution business there.
We have a manufacturing asset that supports that now.
So I would say focused on India Peru and then -- in terms of ones that are behind from where I'd like it to be.
The others they have to keep pushing because they're a long way from where they should be.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And can you give us any sense of -- just even in the quarter how if you look at that bucket of assets the improvement that you've seen so far year-over-year? I would say for the full year I think about it collectively as say something in the $10 million kind of area.
And for the quarter maybe it's 2 kind of number.
Not -- we haven't -- we didn't see a big kick from the greenfield in the first quarter but Greg has outlined the way we're thinking about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on the transmission markets given that you had a pretty strong quarter in Brazil how -- can you give us any help there on the timing of shipments this year and the seasonality of that business? I'm curious if it's -- kind of a slowdown is going to impact the second quarter? In Brazil or in the U.S.? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Well I'd actually like to know about both.
Yes I guess in the U.S.
we see it as relatively -- it's lumpy but we see it as relatively flat and down from prior year.
So the peak in our transmission business would have been somewhere around 2012 or something like that.
But it's still quite high.
And in Brazil Greg you want to comment on either Brazil or the U.S.? The demand in Brazil was strong.
We have a good backlog projects.
There's a lot of project business in Brazil.
So unfortunately it's really difficult to predict whether it falls over the finish line of quarter second into the third place at the backlog.
And Brazil was solid and not the lumpiness at this point without any project the light kind of lumpiness that we've seen maybe in the last 2 years in Brazil.
The U.S.
is fairly flat Noelle in terms of our thinking by quarter.
But again a project can move in and out of quarter but right now our thinking is it's fairly linear with the second quarter being the weakest of the 3.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last housekeeping question.
Sorry if I missed this but did you call out any impact from copper in the -- or metals in the first quarter on operating income? We didn't call it out Noelle.
But it's also probably a couple of million dollars so maybe about $3 million plus or minus in the first quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm just going to keep going.
On pricing can you talk a little bit about is there any markets where you're seeing some improvement in pricing? Or conversely where you're seeing deterioration? Half of our business is priced short cycle and then you have sort of purchase agreements.
But I would say clearly pricing in many markets is at the cash cost of the least efficient producers.
So I would say the worse pricing is probably in Europe but we're not seeing until we get utilization levels up we're not seeing a lot of pricing power.
There's some -- there's a few narrow niches maybe in the U.S.
where we're seeing a bit but it's -- and we're constantly pushing price because we need to get a fair return on capital.
But again it's a sloppy process right now.
It's exacerbated by metals falling as it did through the first quarter.
Distributers as you've known some of them -- many of them have a tendency to draw down their inventories wait for it to bottom and then demand might restart.
So we not only have the issue of what's our -- what's in our cost of goods sold versus what the spot metals price is in that week or in that day but also when copper is falling or not disciplined distributors wait.
So right now he's sort of bottomed in that $3.00 $3.05 range and we expect -- and we'll see some stabilization of distributer demand as they've drawn down and copper hasn't moved down further.
Your next question comes from Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Two follow-ups.
Just what is the volume expectation in Europe for 2014? And then also what level of profitability improvement you expect on a dollar basis relative to 2013? On a dollar basis -- Shawn it's Brian.
I would say yes clearly we're very pleased with the improvement in NSW in the submarine cable business but also very carefully watching the business in Iberia.
But I would say that the improvement in Europe is a net $5 million to $15 million range and I appreciate that's bit of a wide range from a EBIT perspective.
From a volume perspective...
It's actually flat.
Its down right now.
It depends on where we are but France is roughly flat.
The -- we're seeing some weakness or roughly flat in Iberia.
And the NSW business is lumpy by the percentage of completion accounting whether you're shipping cable or services but generally it's -- we're not expecting demand to pick up in Europe or North Africa.
It's actually flat to slightly down.
Okay.
I'm sorry if I missed this in the press release or the presentation but we have the volume contribution from Venezuela in the first quarter.
What was the revenue contribution? And then just for easy help here what was the total volume contributions from Venezuela in 2013? Shawn let us get that for you.
We...
Yes sorry.
I thought I had that in hand.
But yes if could e-mail me that would be great.
Yes we'll send you a note Shawn.
I think Shawn that Europe my sense is it's getting slightly better.
Again in Europe is North Africa and the percentage of completion accounting around the NSW business.
So -- but broadly we expect France to be stable and I think Iberia is -- which exports is somewhere around flat to down slightly.
But it's -- that's sort of the mix.
We've got to help ourselves in Europe in a market that is sloppy and there is a fair amount of announced restructuring and other things that are going on in Europe.
But the pricing environment sounds like maybe it's flattening out there finally? Say again? The pricing environment in Europe's flattening out at least? Well it can hardly be any worse.
Yes obviously you get paid for some of the specialty work you do and it's often unique designs but that's not enough to -- it's important.
It's what we're known for.
But the real -- what's happened is obviously with Western Europe weak; with Eastern Europe weak; and North Africa and Middle East relatively weak around the Mediterranean all competitors are either thinking through their asset base or selling to absorb fixed.
Obviously it's expensive to close factories in Western Europe.
So you sort of have that stew but I think we're at the exhaustion point for a lot of folks.
So it's a marginal contribution pricing generally which is unsustainable fundamentally.
Shawn the Venezuela numbers.
Len...
Yes Shawn the revenue for Venezuela in the first quarter was roughly $40 million and that's all in about GBP 4 million.
Okay do we have the pounds number for 2013? First quarter 2013 was about little over GBP 4 million.
I was thinking for the full year do have? Yes one sec here.
Full year 2013 would be roughly GBP 21 million GBP 22 million.
There are no further questions queued up at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to General Cable.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available later today on our website.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kyle and I'll be your conference facilitator.
I'd like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations at General Cable.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Many of you have already seen a copy of our press release issued last night.
For those of you who have not it is available on our website at generalcable.com.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation also available on our website.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
The format of today's call will first be an update by Greg Kenny on key themes for 2014 including the company's restructuring program.
Secondly Brian Robinson will provide comments on our second quarter results and the outlook for the third quarter and full year followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #5.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Greg Kenny.
Greg? Good morning and thank you Len.
Our restructuring program is off to a fast start as planned.
We've taken prompt action announcing the closure of the India and Peru greenfield locations as well as the closure of one manufacturing facility in North America.
The closure of these 3 facilities is expected to generate around $12 million in annual savings and result in onetime pretax charges in the range of $50 million including approximately $12 million of cash.
In India we plan to maintain our local sales team focused on higher value-added products such as extra-high voltage power cables.
Our plan is to continue to service this demand with products manufactured in our facilities in Thailand as well as France.
Similarly we plan to service our important market position in Peru by utilizing other regional manufacturing assets.
In North America we are consolidating a smaller facility that produces aftermarket ignition wire sets for the Mexican and Latin American markets.
This represents the third facility closure in North America this year as we announced the permanent closure of 2 Electric Utility facilities in February.
Finally we continue to take cost out through targeted reductions in SG&amp;A expenses globally.
Overall we anticipate approximately 20% of our envelopes will be impacted by the restructuring program half of which may result in facility closures while the other half represents facility realignment or production reconfiguration.
We anticipate the majority of the total pretax charges of the program of approximately $200 million will be recognized in 2014.
The cadence of these actions is deliberate in order to ensure customer service levels and continuity.
We are also sensitive to our employees during this period of transition and certain legal requirements.
We appreciate the contributions of all our employees and we'll support those impacted during this period of transition.
While these are difficult decisions we believe these actions represent important steps towards improving our profitability and return on invested capital.
The program is targeting annual savings of approximately $75 million which represents more than 1/3 of the company's current 2014 full year guidance for adjusted operating income at the midpoint.
The wire and cable industry have been waiting through an uneven and lengthy global economic recovery over the past several years including 2014 where growth momentum continues to be inconsistent.
We continue to face uneven spending for utility and construction products in North America and Latin America as well as persistent challenges in Spain and Thailand.
Despite these challenges our results for the second quarter were within our guidance range for both adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS.
While the momentum we anticipated going into the construction season failed to materialize we are still planning on a solid second half of the year as the burden of selling higher average cost inventory subsides and the initial benefits of our restructuring program are realized.
Additionally we continue to make progress on our productivity and asset optimization plans including greenfield turnaround plans in Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
We're also anticipating a stronger second half in France due to spending on electrical utility cables including terrestrial turnkey projects.
Finally we are expecting better results in Thailand as conditions improve domestically in the latter part of the year.
Overall we're expecting to generate adjusted operating income of $200 million to $230 million for 2014 including Venezuela an improvement of 8% year-over-year at the midpoint.
We are confident in our strategy competitiveness and ability to create shareholder value.
Our top priority is the execution of our restructuring program which we believe will further strengthen the alignment of our portfolio with the long-term fundamental growth prospects for energy infrastructure and construction investment in key end markets around the world.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Brian.
Brian? Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone.
Overall the strong performance of our submarine turnkey project business coupled with seasonal demand patterns helped to partially offset the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment in the second quarter where adjusted operating income of $57 million and adjusted EPS of $0.29 were both within our guidance range.
Next on Slide #10 net sales and global unit volume were down year-over-year 4% in the second quarter of 2014 principally due to aerial transmission cable shipments in North America and Brazil and construction product sales in North America and Latin America.
Year-over-year adjusted operating income for the second quarter reflects the impact of lower unit volume including aerial transmission and construction cables particularly aluminum building wire in North America as well as the ongoing challenges in Spain and Thailand.
Partially offsetting the impact of these items were the strong results of our submarine turnkey project business as we achieved important milestones on a significant project.
On Slide 11 net sales and unit volume increased sequentially 7% and 3% respectively.
This improvement reflects the impact of seasonal demand trends coupled with a greater mix of copper-based products and lower aerial transmission aluminum-based product shipments in North America and Brazil.
Additionally the second quarter reflects the seasonally stronger production and installation activities of the company's submarine turnkey project business.
Overall adjusted operating income increased approximately $34 million or 148% principally due to seasonal demand patterns as well as the strong performance of the company's submarine turnkey project business which helped to offset the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment and the ongoing challenges in Spain and Thailand.
We will discuss the outlook for the third quarter and full year in a few slides but first I want to take you through the second quarter in more detail on Slide 12 13 and 14.
On Slide #12 in North America adjusted operating income was down year-over-year principally due to demand trends in key businesses including electric utility construction and communications which were down in the second quarter of 2014 approximately 10% 15% and 14% respectively.
However the sequential demand trends were encouraging as electric utility distribution cables aluminum building wire and communication cables were up 15% 7% and 19% respectively in the second quarter.
Overall these seasonal demand trends helped to mitigate the burden of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal price environment in the second quarter of 2014.
Next on Slide 13 adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2014 in Europe &amp; Med reflects the continued strong performance of the company's submarine turnkey project business which achieved an important milestone in the second quarter of 2014 on a significant project.
Our business in France also performed well during the second quarter as we benefited from spending on electric utility products including production and installation activity on terrestrial turnkey project business.
Partially offsetting these trends were the ongoing challenges in Spain as well as the burden of selling higher average cost inventory during the second quarter.
The company's project backlog including both submarine and terrestrial is currently around $550 million.
Next on Slide 14 year-over-year adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2014 in Rest of World declined principally due to the impact of weaker results in Thailand as a result of the ongoing domestic conditions and lower aerial transmission cable shipments in Brazil.
Sequentially adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2014 improved principally due to seasonal demand patterns as unit volume increased 7% as compared to the first quarter.
Unit volume throughout Latin America and Asia Pacific more than offset lower aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil and the impact of the ongoing challenges in Thailand.
On Slides 15 and 16 we have provided our third quarter and full year outlook.
On Slide 15 sequentially net sales and global unit volume for the third quarter are expected to improve principally due to shipments of aerial transmission cables in North America and continuing progress on the company's greenfields in Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
Partially offsetting these trends are the expected seasonal declines in Europe.
As a result the company expects adjusted operating income to be in the range of $60 million to $75 million for the third quarter of 2014.
The company expects these results will include initial benefits of the restructuring program as well as the continued progress on the company's productivity and asset optimization plans including its greenfields in Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
On Slide 16 for the full year 2014 we expect adjusted operating income to be in the range of $200 million to $230 million.
Global unit volume is expected to be flat to down low single-digits year-over-year.
Adjusted operating income for 2014 is expected to improve year-over-year as the company begins to realize savings from its restructuring program and its productivity and asset optimization plans as well as the performance of greenfields including Mexico South Africa and Brazil.
The company also expects the impact of the political situation in Thailand to ease somewhat in the latter part of the year.
Operating cash flow is expected to be in the range of $135 million to $165 million.
The revised operating cash flow outlook principally reflects higher working capital due to lower-than-expected inventory reductions given the current year demand environment.
Moving to Slide 18 net debt was $1 256 000 000 at the end of the second quarter an increase of $104 million from the first quarter.
The increase in net debt is principally due to the normal seasonal trends as the company funded higher working capital in the second quarter of 2014.
The company continues to maintain adequate liquidity to fund operations internal growth opportunities including product expansion as well as shareholder capital deployment.
The company remains focused on its shareholder distribution policy which is set at 30% to 40% of adjusted net income over the cycle.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
This is Chris Dankert standing in for Shawn Harrison.
I'm just kind of curious can you give us a little bit of an update as far as exactly how much of the savings land in 3Q versus 4Q? And I've got a quick follow-up on that.
Yes I would say the overall estimate we talked about when we announced the restructuring program was about $10 million in the second half.
And I'd say at this point maybe it's 50-50 so maybe half in the third half in the fourth we're -- as you saw we announced specifically and named the facilities of Peru and India.
So as we move quickly on those we expect more of an immediate benefit there or improvement to the underlying earnings.
Okay and then kind of to that I mean is it kind of split about that way so 2/3 of the benefit is directed towards ROW? Yes that's fair.
In order of magnitude that's I think the right way to think about it as India and Peru would [indiscernible] be reported in that segment yes.
Okay great.
And then sorry one last thing.
Do you guys have a sense for what a sustainable EBIT margin is in EMEA now? And then submarine was doing very well and then France you said was positive.
Was there any other region that was positively contributing in the quarter? Yes.
I think in terms of sustainable clearly we're pleased with the continued execution in the NSW business a very strong quarter partly because we hit a very important milestone on a large project.
So the EBIT margin in E and Med in the second quarter it's going to benefit from that and we expect more of a I would say normalization in the second half of the year but still strong results in NSW strong results in France.
And as we said we continue to deal with the ongoing challenges in Spain.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> My first question I just wanted to focus on your cash flow guidance.
When you lowered your guidance a few weeks ago I think you kind of said it was a little bit early to comment on the cash but you still felt okay with the range.
You've brought it down pretty substantially so I was just hoping that you could walk us through what changed in the past few weeks in terms of how you're looking at cash flow.
Yes Noelle.
That's right when we reported a 2 weeks ago we said we are still looking at things and going through our internal processes.
The key element and as we said -- or I said at the time I thought the reduction in the earnings given the movements on our working capital there was that we needed to look at all the pieces the main pieces on the inventory as we said.
So we've not been able to get as much of inventory out as we had forecast partly because of the demand environment.
And so that's the principal reduction of the $100 million at the midpoint.
We're focused on that.
We're internally focused on getting both this and more in terms of our working capital and specifically our inventory management.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second can you quantify the impact that you estimate selling at the higher cost inventories with higher metals prices embedded had in the quarter? We think it was around I'll call it $12 million to $15 million? That's our estimate.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then third question just looking at some of these markets that you cited being down and or kind of challenged in the U.S.
so both North American communications down significantly year-over-year.
I was hoping maybe you could just provide a little bit of detail on what you're seeing there in terms of maybe some of the higher-end solutions that you sell versus -- you've been getting into the telephone cables and then just commenting on construction as well what you're seeing in terms of your aluminum solution and copper and then you cited some pricing pressure there.
Is that coming from a single competitor or is it just kind of a slower non-res recovery making that a more challenging market? Yes in communications we have a couple of businesses.
One is a copper telephone for the outside plant that has been declining consistently for 10 years and that's what drives the number down.
Our data communications business where we're a leader we see that market moving sort of sideways.
We continue to be successful with our higher-end solutions and it's a successful and key strategic business for us.
So in the end sideways on Datacom which is a bit bigger than the copper telephone and copper telephone by pounds and units has been declining and continues to decline perhaps with the -- if non -- if resi construction picks up we might see that rate of decline slow down but that's been down 0% to 10% a year kind of number for a long time.
We are seeing strong pressure on the aluminum building wire business.
A competitor entered the business and seems intent in growing that business.
We're going to defend our position strongly.
It's where we have a wonderful brand name STABILOY and NUAL in Canada and that's an unfortunate element of people taking strategies and that's their strategy.
So we've seen a lot of value add be erased as well as volume from that business.
And we will defend our position vigorously and I would say that cost us volume and price over the first half of the year and we expect that pressure will be there but we will meet it.
I would say looking forward we see some increase in incoming orders in the industrial side and the specialty side which has been strong areas of performance for us over the last 10 years.
These are all the niche products that go into lots of complicated installations and we've been growing those businesses quite nicely.
We also see a strong wind area.
The wind segment has been quite strong and we're seeing just a bit of a liftoff in the low-voltage and medium-voltage cables to the utilities.
But again it's way down from where it was 10 years ago.
But it seems to have stopped going down but it's not a big breakout upward but it is stabilizing and moving slightly upward.
In transmission cables we think this year will be down in the U.S.
and Canada from prior year by kind of the 20% range.
And looking out forward it looks to be still the demand out there but may not hit the peak of 2012 though there are a lot of projects.
And clearly if the projects are released we could exceed that number.
So that's basically Noelle I think the tour principally of the Americas.
Was there a follow-up on demand and what we're seeing? Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> No that's actually pretty good color.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I understand you guys are backing out Venezuela going forward.
But have you seen indications of your operations in that region turning? Or are you still seeing some pressure? They seem to view us as someone that is critical to the economy and certainly to the oil company and we've had some release from the government for cash to bring copper into the country.
And there is still a law of fair prices which we must subscribe to.
So profits are constrained and we have had not a lot of raw materials to run which is obviously -- has hit every major manufacturing company there but we've recently had a release from the government to bring in copper and we will go ahead and do that.
Copper is the biggest part of the business with aluminum smaller so it's a business that we think will move along.
We won't put more capital into the business but we think it could be profitable locally or breakeven or better but again a far cry from where it was and it's mostly due to -- we just can't predict how much raw materials we'll be granted to bring in in order to keep the plant running.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it looked like you...
We're no different than what you've been reading in the Wall Street Journal and others about other manufacturers whose output are down materially but we did get some good news recently in terms of the import of copper.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
And then looks like you're expecting that average cost kind of headwind to be maybe a little more of a tailwind in Q3.
Are you factoring any benefit into your guidance for that? It's around a push.
Right now copper is around $3.23.
So it's broadly neither a headwind nor a tailwind.
Again the issue has been the industry is not running at capacity so there is -- it's pretty far from capacity other than in a few segments.
So the ability to recover up or down is more limited but it would be a push broadly if it stays where it is today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Brian your CapEx guidance is unchanged from last quarter.
With the facility closures what sort of incremental CapEx reduction could we expect going forward? Not a lot Brent.
Those facilities obviously were under close evaluation.
We talked about the milestones and the like.
So I would still be comfortable with the range and if anything a small benefit but for now I'd hold the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last one Brian.
You had a $0.05 share impact from restatement and forensic costs.
Should you see the additional costs going forward? Or is that behind you know? I think you should -- there's still be -- out of the last couple of years there's still -- we still have items that were let's call are tails from all of that activity.
So we continue to have some expense there.
I would say we'd expect it to come down a bit as we get these various items resolved.
But it's -- obviously it's yet another cost that is -- that we're focused on and we're managing it very tightly.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So with your $125 million of senior notes coming due you next year I think you guys talked about maybe taking some action to replace that.
Just curious if there's been any progress or if you have any updated thoughts on making some moves there.
Yes.
Noelle it's Brian.
Clearly my comments would be consistent with what we said a few weeks ago.
We continue -- we've got obviously significant liquidity on the U.S.
ABL -- U.S.
Canadian and European ABL excuse me.
So we're looking -- so I think the options are everything from using the ABL to refinancing net debt in the public markets.
And if and when we have something to say clearly we'll do that.
But for now I would say we continue to actively evaluate our options and that's how we're thinking about it.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in the news obviously we've seen companies continue to move from SICAD I to SICAD II in Venezuela.
Curious if you have any additional thoughts on that situation and your guy's accounting there? No additional thoughts.
We've been using the SICAD I rate.
It's -- there's unique circumstances I think in our case around the copper and the fact that we have approvals at various rates.
So we're cognizant that a number of companies some -- I shouldn't say a number I'm aware a handful of companies have gone to the SICAD II rate.
And I said on the last call it does create risk around our balance sheet and the devaluation risk which as I said on the -- previously our estimate is that's about a $100 million sort of risk to the -- from a devaluation perspective.
So we continue to monitor it very closely.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then I guess just going back to the trends you're seeing in the business.
Greg can you go into what you're seeing in Europe in a bit more detail in some of the key markets there? Yes.
We continue to see -- we have a land turnkey business that's important and that we're the technological leader in.
And I would say there's some pretty good project activity there and they're sometimes quite complex projects.
This relates to the interconnection of the grid in Europe as well as bringing power from alternative energy generation into the grid.
So -- and I would say that's stronger in France and Northern Europe though there are -- there's a key connection between France and Italy that we're involved with.
So that business I like what we've done there and I feel strongly about our execution.
Again that's a global business that's centered -- has a center of excellence out of France but also ties into a facility we have in Mexico and Thailand.
But again the European market for those products is strong and we are able to demonstrate very strong technical confidence and creative solutions to problems in the grid.
I would say the French market is sort of sideways from the regular products but we're -- they're spending on the utility segment which is an area of strength for us.
Northern Europe seems pretty good.
Again this is all relative to the last couple of years.
Spain we need to continue to forge a solution for it's demand.
We see a second half that is slightly better but still from an operating basis around breakeven.
Spain was losing money on an operating basis.
This is before interest and taxes in the first half.
So we're very focused on that and again this is Spain and Portugal and those products are both sold in Iberia as well as elsewhere.
So Spain is probably bottoming at a very low or Iberia at a very low level.
We're doing well in our communications cables in Europe.
And so I would say net-net Europe has intense competition for the more flow products or low-voltage products as everybody from the East of Europe to North Africa's looking for volume.
We do see some differentiation around the more complex products that fewer people can do.
In the submarine business which is broadly focused on power side in the north of Europe see a little bit of -- there's a lot of project activity.
A lot of it is in 2016 '17 '18 timeframe.
But we're completing major projects now we're building our submarine communications business but I would say obviously there's a big debate in Europe and many programs launched but debated in terms of the alternative energy.
But we have multiple business units up at NSW.
It's being extremely ably managed in terms of completing complex projects and what we need to do is stay focused and win new business in that facility and continue to work on our cost structure and flexibility.
So I'm moderately encouraged.
I'm proud of what they were able to do this year.
It is a seasonal business as you know because of weather.
But net-net we see a lot of opportunity a slight lull in 2015 but we're continuing to look for ways of filling the facility then but then a bit of a strengthening in '16 and '17.
So all in all in Europe we've got to keep driving our cost and driving our cost and driving our cost and then work the niches which really are communications and a lot of the utility cables as well as the turnkey business.
So I'm pleased with what that team's been able to do and we're -- I'm cautiously optimistic but we're not getting great help in terms of demand but we've got to help ourselves.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
Just a quick clarification on an earlier question.
You were saying North America transmission you see it down about 20% this year.
Tough market but I was kind of curious if you could break out what you see the end market growth as being and if there is an opportunity to capture share there and then what you're kind of expecting for 2015 in utility or in the transmission market rather? The market is up.
As we pointed out in prior meetings this is one of the few businesses that's actually stronger now or in the last couple of years than it was say in 2004 or 2005.
There are lots of projects available and we want to protect margin and get paid for the work we do.
But I would say we'd see it slightly improve from this year 2014 but probably not reaching 2013 levels.
But again happily this is lumpy business and releases come and go.
But there's a fair amount of activity out there in terms of bid and I would see it as net-net below -- above this year but below say the peak which was 2012-ish for us.
But again 2012 was almost double where it was 10 years ago.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ryan and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] General Cable you may begin your conference call.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Greg will discuss the strategic initiatives and leadership transition plans we announced in our press release last night.
Brian Robinson will then provide comments on our third quarter results and the outlook for the fourth quarter and full year followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I want to call your attention to our safe harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted operating income in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide 4.
I will now turn the call over to Greg Kenny.
Thanks Len and good morning.
Thank you for joining us today.
As you saw in our press release last night our board has decided to make a fundamental shift in our strategy by exiting our operations in Asia Pacific and Africa while sharpening our focus on core businesses in North America Latin America and Europe.
I'd like to take some time on today's call to talk you through the thinking behind this move and to explain why we believe it is the best way to improve operational performance and maximize value for our shareholders.
First while many of our businesses have strong potential our overall performance has lagged and our board and management are not satisfied at all with this performance for the resulting impact on our stock price.
We do not believe our current stock price reflects the value inherent in our business.
And so working closely with our financial adviser JPMorgan our board conducted an extensive review of our strategic options to determine the best path forward to maximize shareholder value.
In reviewing these alternatives we carefully considered our outlook for the global economy and the pricing environment in our markets and around the world.
Over the past several years the industry has and continues to weather some significant challenges.
Understanding the highly cyclical nature of our industry we have exercised patience in our end markets but have come to a view that the path forward requires a sharpened focus on our core strategic operations.
Ultimately the board concluded that the best way to maximize value in the current global environment is to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and focus on delivering improved returns from our core strategic operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
Focusing on these core markets will enable us to better leverage economies of scale and capitalize on our leading positions across key markets where we have built long-standing customer relationships efficient supply chains and offer a broad range of products.
These businesses will continue to serve our global customers with higher value-added products and services as they have always done.
This move will allow us to focus on building out our expanding position in turnkey projects communications transportation industrial and specialty cables in markets that are generally more willing to pay for high quality and at times application-specific products.
In the end we are making this change to ensure that our management has a laser focus on our core business.
We're developing a divestiture plan for Asia Pacific and African assets.
We will have more to say about that plan and our progress in upcoming calls but our plan is to exit these operations as expeditiously and orderly as possible while protecting the substantial underlying value.
Clearly we want to make sure that our customers' needs are met during this process.
We are very focused on those affected by these decisions to ensure they are treated with fairness and respect.
We are sensitive to the objectives of our minority investment partners in Thailand the Philippines Fiji Algeria and Zambia.
As you can see from Slides 5 and 6 the impacted regions represent about 16% of sales or about $1 billion.
Following the divestitures North America will represent more than 50% of our business where we are well-positioned and a market leader.
In Europe we have one of the richest product offerings in the industry a history of innovation and enjoy long-standing relationships in our end markets.
While we are sober about the near-term prospects in Europe we believe we are making the right changes that will drive better returns.
We also believe the industry is making important changes that will prove beneficial over the cycle.
Finally we are maintaining a meaningful level of exposure to developing economies in Latin America where we are a leader with a presence in nearly every country.
We believe our economies of scale proximity and ability to leverage North American manufacturing know-how in the introduction of higher value-added products offers growth opportunities throughout the region in addition to future energy infrastructure and construction investment.
Turning to Slide 7.
I'm pleased by the strong progress in our restructuring program as we have announced through the third quarter about 80% or $60 million of our planned initiatives to generate annual savings of $75 million.
To date we've announced the following actions: in the third quarter the announcement of planned actions in Europe and Colombia are anticipated to generate $48 million in annual savings.
Our plans include the consolidation and realignment of our assets in Europe.
They also include the consolidation and streamlining of our assets in Colombia where we are further strengthening our platform for future success in one of the most attractive long-term growth markets in Latin America.
This is in addition to the actions we announced in the second quarter including the closure of manufacturing facilities in Peru and India and one manufacturing facility in North America which are expected to generate $12 million in annual savings.
Overall we expect these actions will result in a onetime pretax charges of about $180 million including approximately $52 million of cash.
Turning to Slide 8.
We announced yesterday that we'll be moving forward to implement our planned leadership transition.
Our board has formed a search committee to identify my successor as CEO.
Once a successor is identified the board has asked me to remain on the board and become Chairman and I've agreed to do so on an open-ended basis as the needs of the company dictate.
My duties in this role would include a smooth transition for the new CEO and successful completion of the sale of the noncore assets while maintaining their value in the interim.
Jack Welsh our current Chairman will remain on the Board of Directors as Lead Independent Director once the new CEO has been selected.
Complementing the recent addition of Ned Hall an energy infrastructure expert and operating executive we also plan to add another operations-experienced independent director to augment and support our current board and management.
We have already identified potential candidates with strong operational experience and we expect to complete the search in the near term.
Throughout this process we are pleased that we have strong experienced regional leadership in place to assist in effecting a smooth transition.
Greg Lampert in the Americas and Bob Kenny in Europe are 2 seasoned executives and they will continue in their roles.
Peter Campbell currently Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of General Cable Asia Pacific will direct the noncore businesses during the divestiture process.
Overall we have a clear strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce organizational complexity and ensure a laser focus on increasing returns of core strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
We are committed to generating returns that exceed our cost of capital over a cycle and plan to aggressively manage our core strategic assets to that end.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Brian.
Brian? Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone.
On Slide 9 we've included a summary of our third quarter financial results followed by slides on North America Europe &amp; Med and ROW.
Overall global unit volume in the third quarter excluding the shipment of aerial transmission cables in North America and Latin America was down 2% year-over-year and 4% sequentially principally due to general end-market demand weakness in Europe and Med.
Adjusted operating income of $55 million in the third quarter principally reflects the relative strength of the company's businesses in North America which improved $19 million year-over-year and $9 million sequentially.
While certain of our end markets remain under significant pressure our businesses in North America continue to show signs of improving which is encouraging.
More specifically on Slide 10 in North America adjusted operating income for the third quarter increased $19 million year-over-year principally due to the performance of the company's electric utility construction and rod mill businesses.
Sequentially the increase of $9 million was principally due to the performance of the company's electric utility electrical infrastructure and rod mill businesses.
Overall demand trends remain relatively flat year-over-year on balance but we are capturing opportunities in those businesses previously mentioned along with some of our self-help cost-reduction initiatives including previously announced asset optimization plans and restructuring efforts.
On Slide 11 in Europe &amp; Med.
Putting aside the production and installation activity of the company's turnkey projects we continue to experience relatively broad weakness throughout our flow business as unit volume is down approximately 12% sequentially and year-over-year.
We are focused on our restructuring program having just announced actions that are to be implemented that will help drive the performance improvement of underperforming assets.
The planned actions in Europe are expected to generate $42 million of annual savings once fully completed which represents a substantial improvement more than 2x the region's adjusted operating income over the past 12 months.
Our turnkey project backlog was around $525 million at the end of the third quarter relatively unchanged from the second quarter.
On Slide 12 in ROW adjusted operating income of $11 million in the third quarter improved sequentially principally due to results in Colombia and Thailand as well as the benefit of restructuring efforts in India and Peru.
Year-over-year adjusted operating income improved slightly as a benefit of restructuring efforts in India and Peru and stronger results in the Philippines helped to offset weakness in Thailand.
The geopolitical situation in Thailand has generally improved.
However economic conditions remain challenged and our results continue to lag our earlier expectations.
Turning to the fourth quarter outlook on Slide 13.
The company expects adjusted operating income to be in the range of $40 million to $55 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 principally due to the impact of typical seasonal demand patterns.
While we expect unit volume to be flat to up low single digits this is principally due to shipments of aerial transmission cables in North America and Brazil.
On Slide 14 for the full year 2014 we expect adjusted operating income to be in the range of $175 million to $190 million.
Global unit volume is expected to be flat to down low single digits year-over-year.
The decrease in our guidance range for adjusted operating income principally reflects the impact of an increasingly uncertain macro environment uneven electrical infrastructure and construction investment throughout Latin America and ongoing challenges in Spain and Thailand.
The company reconfirms its guidance range for adjusted operating cash flow for 2014 of approximately $135 million.
We're pushing hard over the final quarter of the year as we are unwinding seasonal working capital and focusing on inventory reduction targets in each of our business units.
We're also very focused on tightly managing inventory levels as we head into 2015.
On Slide 15 and 16 we've provided a summary of our global liquidity position and our debt maturity profile as of the end of the third quarter.
The company continues to maintain more than adequate liquidity.
We currently have $400 million of availability under our North America and European-based credit facility.
In addition we have $230 million of availability on working capital lines around the world and cash of $165 million excluding $106 million in Venezuela.
Collectively we have approximately $800 million of liquidity in the system to fund operations and support the quarterly dividend the restructuring program and the anticipated retirement of the $125 million senior floating rate notes due in April 2015.
Net debt was $1 359 000 000 at the end of the third quarter of 2014 a decrease of $14 million from the end of the second quarter.
The decrease in net debt was principally due to the reductions in working capital as a result of normal seasonal trends.
Also the company is in the early planning stages but preliminarily is budgeting capital expenditure in the range of $40 million to $50 million for 2015.
Before I hand the call back over to Greg we thought it would be useful to provide you with an update as to the current status of our ongoing investigation by our external counsel of certain transactions that may implicate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The investigation is focused on the conduct of our businesses in Angola India and Thailand.
Our outside legal counsel has reviewed over 450 000 documents and interviewed approximately 20 individuals representing most of the interviews they currently intend to complete.
The company disclosed its investigation concerning these matters to the Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission and has since cooperated fully and proactively with the agencies and intends to continue to do so.
If there are no significant new developments then we anticipate that our internal investigation will be concluded or substantially concluded during the first quarter of 2015.
We currently expect the total cost of performing this investigation to be less than $10 million the majority of which already has been incurred and is reflected in our 9-month results.
We cannot predict how long it will take the SEC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the outcome may be and including the amount of any fines or penalties we may ultimately pay.
We already have taken and we continue to take steps to strengthen the company's compliance program.
We have an initiative underway to identify categorize and screen our global third-party sales agents and we have provided anti-corruption training to our global sales force.
Anti-corruption training ultimately will be provided to all salaried employees.
We are actively recruiting a Chief Compliance Officer who will have a reporting relationship with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors as well as the CEO and he will be responsible for the day-to-day management of General Cable's compliance function.
The board and management fully support the enhancement of our practices in this area.
In concluding this discussion these investigations are such that there can be no guarantee that its scope won't change or expand in the future but we wanted to let you know where we were today.
I'll now hand you back to Greg to sum up.
In summary we have a strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce organizational complexity and ensure a laser focus on increasing returns in core strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
These are regions where we have comparative advantage and concrete plans to further leverage existing assets to reduce costs.
They will also continue to serve global customers as they've always done.
We have made significant progress on our previously announced restructuring plan.
We are in the process of executing our succession plan and adding to our board.
We believe we have substantial opportunities ahead of us and are well-positioned to benefit from future energy infrastructure and construction investment.
While these have been difficult times for the industry I'm optimistic about our future.
Over the years from a modest starting point we built an industry leader.
We have navigated through far tougher times with significantly less resources.
I am encouraged and confident in our plan and our team.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
I guess the assets in Asia and Africa $1 billion of sales.
If you could maybe give us an idea of what may be the trailing EBIT or EBITDA margin has been and maybe what you guys see as really a normalized EBITDA margin for that business? Yes Shawn.
It's Brian.
So these assets have in a number of places as we mentioned on the call have minority partners as well.
So as we said $1 billion of revenue on 100% basis.
The -- what I would -- the way we would describe it is EBITDA over a cycle in the 6% to 7% range which is consistent with a lot of our other businesses and like a lot of our other businesses continuing to move through a challenging environment.
And lastly I would say these businesses -- certain of these businesses are characterized by a higher required capital employed investment.
We tend to get a longer runway or need on carrying inventory and receivables and we end up with payable terms that look a lot like what we have in other parts of the business so the capital employed and the capital investment in these businesses is also higher than what we would normally -- what we'd see in other parts of our business.
Okay.
Very helpful Brian.
Second the $125 million debt maturity.
I know you guys went out to the high-yield market.
That didn't work out as you had planned at that time.
Is there an idea of going back to that? Are there any issues in paying off that debt otherwise with your credit facility lines in terms of features or covenants that would come into issue? Yes Shawn.
The bond offering was an opportunistic thought a way to enter the market.
Unfortunately that week the high-yield market moved or weakened let's call it which made it impossible to get a deal done.
So we're focused on retiring the $125 million notes on the global ABL.
As you saw in our prepared remarks and in our presentation material we have $400 million of availability on that line.
We recently just this week technically amended the agreement to clarify the definition of how that $125 million would be interpreted in the fixed charge coverage.
So we're in very good shape and we're focused on managing the working capital delivering the restructuring.
And I think all things being equal retiring those notes on the revolver.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt McCall from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So maybe following up on that question before.
Just making sure I understand the EPS impact of the anticipated moves in Asia and Africa is it negative neutral positive near-term? And then what's the timing of the hit and/or eventual benefit as we look out? Yes.
Matt it's Brian here.
So the -- we're giving some of the broad framework around the revenue the EBITDA margins over time and the capital employed in these businesses at say around -- at the 100% is about $500 million is the way to frame it.
We're -- as we said in the call we're working through all the various units let's say in terms of a disposition plan.
So we're not ready to give specific details around the ultimate financial outcomes which will depend on how well we do through the process our ability to take say some of the overhead costs throughout the company that look after these operations and reduce those costs as well as really then our ability to get our -- to focus our resources in a laser-like fashion on the core operations.
So Matt I guess that's as far as we're prepared to go with respect to the overall financial outcomes is that we've got the work to do with respect to the plan.
What I would -- and lastly what I would say is again so much of this focus is around simplifying the company reducing the operational complexity and that laser focus on the core operations.
We have talked over time around the $300 million EBIT opportunity in the company and going forward as we said we believe over half the business will be North America for us U.S.
and Canada and that the majority of that $300 million opportunity resides in the businesses that we defined as the core businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That was actually going to be my next question.
As you look at the earnings power you might've just answered it but is the earnings power story largely unchanged that you've been telling for the last couple of years? Yes we -- when we get further down the road Matt obviously we'll come back with more specificity around the numbers.
But yes that's what we're saying is the $300 million -- the characteristics that drove the $300 million EBIT opportunity globally we were -- this strategy is around focusing on those -- some of these core markets.
So the same characteristics reside in the core businesses and we'll be laser-focused on achieving those -- that EBIT opportunity.
And as we go further and we announce more details around the disposition plan and the path forward we'll get more precise around this.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And I think a couple of the countries that you're talking about divestitures in they had bribery issues.
I think those were 2 of the countries mentioned there.
What happens to those liabilities if you do divest those businesses? Or is it too early to tell? Yes Matt that's -- the answer is it's too early to tell.
Let's be clear.
I mean from -- with respect to liabilities I think I would call it the uncertainties and the work that's ongoing but it's -- the short answer is it's too early to tell and would be -- it will be part of any sort of discussion and negotiations as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then I did have one more question.
As you think about the margin profile of the business it sounds like it should get better.
Can you talk about -- or is there any way to quantify this effort to increase the percent of value-add products that I think Greg you mentioned when you talk -- when you think about what's going to drive the improved profitability how big of a component is just this mix shift towards these higher value-added products? We -- I'm really proud of how far the team's come.
As you know we have a multi-faceted strategy there.
We've taken our data cable business and created a global leader certainly a North American leader in the copper data comm and complementary fiber optics for the local area network.
We see great opportunity in the communications area in Europe and are working hard on opportunity there.
The specialty cables team and industrial team where we use a lot of our science and chemistry have really done a nice job in the U.S.
and in Europe driven a lot by the U.S.
to really build those businesses out and many of those businesses are quite global in nature meaning we follow railcar manufacturers or others as they are around the world.
Our transportation and industrial business which is really aimed at the auto and transportation industries has very done very well complemented by our very fine Prestolite acquisition.
We've got a very substantial oil and gas business at every part of that industry which has seen a little bit of swoon recently but still has very aggressive capital spending relative to historic levels.
We've also seen our turnkey business and you saw a bit of that in the second quarter obviously a lumpier business on the percentage of completion but that's a $300 million or $400 million business where we're viewed as very strong on land and in the specific area in the sea we're also developing our undersea fiber optics business.
So we'll be more specific around that but that work is well underway has been underway.
We're seeing those units stand up tall in General Cable and we have the intellectual capital to go do that.
Those markets vary in size.
And again you know that by and large the largest part of the wire and cable industry are products with less value-added than those and can be more commoditized and certainly more price-driven but that's still a substantial opportunity.
We're really good at that.
A lot of those roots came from BICC which was bought many years ago.
Turned out to be a very fine acquisition and we built upon that.
So I think that's a more precise story we'll tell over time.
But rest assured that we've really come a very long way from -- as an example in the communications area from middle of the market to a leader in that area over a few short years.
So I like that.
Bob Kenny in Europe is a specialist in those areas and he's helping drive that with the team over there.
As you know Bob got there about 6 months ago.
So I'm encouraged.
We'll tell you a sharper story as we have more time but those efforts have been underway well underway and are part of the future strong part of the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.
A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> You guys have been back in Venezuela from the adjusted financials for a few quarters now which I guess kind of implies you don't view these as core assets.
Are you considering a process of divesting this position as well? Yes Brent with respect to Venezuela? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Is that the question? Okay.
So Venezuela the way we think about it is we've really put -- as you say we put a box around Venezuela and we're driving it towards a reasonable conclusion.
We expect -- you're right we put the business to the side from a financial reporting perspective.
We expect the business to be around breakeven for 2014.
As we've said before and as we said in the transcript there is about $106 million of cash on the balance sheet in Venezuela.
So we'll continue to watch that very closely but yes I would considerate it I guess notionally as part of that noncore thinking.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Brian I just want to be clear on the restructuring efforts here.
The $130 million in pretax charges related to Europe and Colombia that's in addition to the $200 million you've previously provided.
Is that right? No no.
That's within that $200 million.
So what we're really saying is overall we originally said $200 million of charges and $75 million of savings.
So that $130 million fits into the $200 million.
We are now as we said put -- we're putting -- let's call it "meat on the bones" of the plan.
Right.
So said another way Brent this is Len.
You had said as the $130 million in Q3 and then the $50 million in Q2 so year-to-date or like-to-date on the program we're at the $180 million mark of the $200 million.
And that's cash and noncash but that's the total charges of course.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just talking about the quarter.
The performance of North America was pretty solid here in terms of profitability.
I guess can you just provide a little more detail on the drivers? That looks like 7.5% profit margin this quarter.
Yes.
Brent a number of factors I think -- and it's a -- which includes -- I mean the key businesses as we mentioned were around electric utility some on the electrical infrastructure side and some in our rod and strip businesses.
So while the volumes were sideways to down in certain businesses we've continued to perform well.
I think we had some pockets of pricing and I would say the actions that we've taken around -- we've already started on cost-out and we've worked hard on and some of the -- unfortunately we had to -- and these aren't easy decisions we had to make.
We made some reductions in force over the summer.
And I think that's starting to bear fruit as well from a number and public reporting perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Going back just quickly to the divestiture of Asia and Africa.
How much of the $75 million in cost-savings target from the restructuring fall within those operations that you're now looking to discontinue -- or to divest I'm sorry? Yes it's a very small right? I mean it's -- it would -- technically I suppose it would just be India.
India would be the only assets that are contemplated.
Yes yes I think Noelle the key is that -- this is why we're very convicted around the plan because I think the focus -- the ability to focus on the core and to have the restructuring primarily focused on the core we think is a compelling path forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I understand you'll give more detail here as you progress but do you have a rough sense of how much of this revenue you're looking to or how much of these operations you're looking to sell as opposed to maybe just kind of wind down or discontinue? Yes we'll give -- you're right Noelle.
We'll give more information as we go.
Our intention would be to sell these assets.
It's not easy.
It's -- these are in Africa and in Asia.
As we said we have important minority partners that we also want to work together on productively that there's substantial value in these assets.
We want to retain that value during the process.
So our intention at this point is to sell the assets.
But as we said we've got to be very precise in our work and in that process.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was hoping you could provide a little bit more detail around cash flow in the quarter.
If you could talk about operating cash flow in the quarter that would be helpful.
And I'm curious how much of the cash restructuring costs you've incurred to date? Yes.
So from an operating cash flow perspective Noelle for the third quarter we should be around $60 million I'll call it adjusted operating cash flow.
Where we -- as you said -- as you saw our target remains $135 million of operating cash flow for the year which means we see a significant Q4 operating cash flow coming.
Order of magnitude in sort of the $170 million to $200 million range and that's primarily driven around the working capital.
So we have -- we're very much focused by unit on first and foremost on inventory reductions.
We took about $20 million of inventory out in the third quarter.
In Q4 we're pushing hard towards $130 million on the inventory side globally.
So meaningful -- so we -- so full year we're still anticipating a meaningful cash flow second half cash flow weighted towards Q4.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at -- just hoping to get a little bit more detail on Europe in terms of the softness you saw in the quarter.
First can you comment on if there were any markets that significantly deviated from your expectations in terms of volume? And then if you -- if there was any particular pricing pressure again whether you want to talk about that by country or by market that would be helpful.
Noelle the biggest obviously is that we've had nice -- team's done a great job at NSW which is our turnkey submarine business and that is a lumpy business as you know and weather-driven.
So you'd expect all things being equal that it -- certain quarters will be better than others because of the temperatures in the North sea et cetera.
So a lot of the second quarter was driven there.
I would say Spain continues to be weaker despite some of the positive headlines.
I think they had some GNP growth again.
And as we've talked about investors are jumping into the housing and other markets.
But I would say Spain from a demand standpoint continues to lag.
I feel good about what we're doing in Europe around the communications cable.
France is solid and net-net I think it's principally Spain though to be clear Europe is -- a lot of competitors have announced restructuring.
There's a lot of stress there and of course the spillover is things are weak in North Africa Turkey and Eastern Europe.
So broadly demand is a late cyclical has been generally weak.
We have some early cycle business there.
So in Europe I think we need to take strong action that helps ourselves because the market recovery if we get it we want to be positioned to enjoy that.
But I see a lot of wonderful technology and niche markets that we're really good at that.
And we get -- continue to get called by customers for their toughest problems.
So yes Europe I would say has been weaker than we thought it would be particularly in Spain.
But I would say this pricing pressure generally in Europe particularly as we get into more commoditized products as there's lots of capacity looking to go to work in the whole region.
Yes.
And I would say -- I would just add a little more on the French side.
Well it's a stable business.
It's a little bit of timing.
So we have I would say a tougher third quarter in France but we expect an improved fourth quarter based on what we can see.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of I guess similar line of questioning on the rest of world segment profitability was better than I was expecting there.
I think obviously restructuring helped but was there any I guess company -- or country-specific improvement or market-specific improvement that also contributed to that growth year-over-year? Yes.
I would say Noelle that you're right.
The benefit -- really what you're seeing is the benefit of actions already taken in India and Peru which were offset by a year-over-year Thai business which has continued to struggle with the geopolitical.
Now the positive side we mentioned in our call that we have not seen the improvement in Thailand come back as quickly as we had thought with respect to the change in government.
But having said that we're starting to see that over the last couple of weeks say month some improving trend lines in Thailand.
So again when we move forward to Q4 we're guardedly optimistic with respect to improvement in Thailand.
We think that that business is -- that things are getting better in the country and getting more stabilized and they're focused on the economy.
More broadly in the other businesses it continues to be -- conditions have remained somewhat challenged right? So Latin America just had the Brazilian election last weekend.
That's now been clarified.
So hopefully that then allows growth and economic activity to return to important markets like Brazil.
But those are the big sort of players and so in the meantime in these businesses we just continue to focus on the execution piece of it the working capital and preparing for the end-market demand.
I would say Noelle we do see some progress.
Things that we can do and have been working on in Mexico Central America Colombia.
Chile obviously is affected by commodities and things but we have a solid business there.
And then in Brazil it's -- transmission is a big piece of their business but we're -- but we've been working at it for a couple of years to add more of the communications cable industrial cables and other things that a developed -- a rapidly developed economy can use.
So we're working on all those fronts and I think we're -- I don't know that the Latin American markets will explode but I certainly see ways that we can help ourselves in clear ways and we're beginning to see come to the fore.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Franklin [ph] from Prudential Financial.
On -- hold on -- the slide -- I think it was Slide 7 -- Slide 15 and 14 the $135 million adjusted operating cash flow.
Can you help us bridge from that to real spending money because looks like you have $40 million in cash right now in North America and you're going to be using the revolver to pay down the maturity in April? So I'm trying to figure out how close you're getting here.
Yes.
Bob.
It's Brian Robinson.
I think when -- couple of things when you look at the business we have to -- that I would draw your attention to right? So we've come -- part of this is a normal seasonal working capital swings in the business.
So our expectation is that as we go -- as we said as we go through Q4 we'll have the cash generation from the unwind of the working capital.
And as we move into 2015 as we said we're very focused on the -- pushing very hard on not increasing inventory levels right and making sure that we're very tight on the working capital.
So when we look forward as we said we've got this $800 million of global liquidity.
I would say to frame it then where I think we have to watch it the closest would be say mid-summer of 2015 absent some x -- absent say refinancing or going to the public markets.
And I think that pushes that $800 million with -- if we're retiring the notes on the ABL would push that to say kind of a -- and with the restructuring to kind of a $600 million global liquidity number.
Keep in mind too next year Bob as we said on the CapEx side we see that at $40 million to $50 million so we're pushing very hard on the CapEx as well.
And then we continue to have a very attractive -- very favorable low cash tax rate in the U.S.
Okay.
So from the $135 million for 2014 what are the subtractions from that to get it to real cash flow? Are you taking out the CapEx from there? Say again Bob.
I'm sorry.
What gets you from $135 million on Page 14 to real money? The $135 million is an adjusted operating number.
Correct correct.
So it's -- if it were showing up on a cash flow statement what would the real number be? It would be in that -- as operating -- again this is pre-CapEx Bob.
So it would end up -- that's basically operating cash flow.
That would be then used to repay...
Okay.
But you've got adjustments in there too.
We've got some adjustments in there as well.
I think Noelle asked earlier.
I think on the restructuring side the cash that we spent to date is -- it's order of magnitude maybe I don't know $10 million? Part of the working capital in some these operations like in India and the Peru wind-down it gets a little hard to parse that precisely but that's sort of the round numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison from Longbow Research.
Couple of clarifications.
Just the assets that you're looking to sell.
They are profitable currently correct? Shawn I would say generally they are.
Keep in mind and I'll mention one that we've talked a lot about.
So it's Thailand for example right? So we've had a business that historically has made $20 million to $25 million of EBIT but that has struggled over the last 3 or 4 quarters because of the geopolitical.
But -- and we've also talked -- and I just talked about where that business is going.
So it -- a lot of these businesses look a lot like a lot of our other businesses or our global businesses where they can be explosive in both directions.
So as I said the characteristic of these businesses is an EBITDA margin over a cycle in that 6% to 7% kind of range.
Okay.
Second what was the copper that you used or the copper amount the price per pound for the third quarter not the fourth? It was $3.16 on average for Q3 and then $3.11 on the out-period for Q4.
Okay.
And then 2 final questions.
Just to clarify.
You -- the cash actually out the door related to the restructuring so far has only been $10 million of the $80 million.
So you'll face fourth quarter into 2015 another $70 million outflow related to that? Yes we've got -- as far the 2 announcements we've made so far represent about $52 million of the total cash.
So what we'll see is a bit on the out-period.
But yes so order of magnitude probably $10 million to $20 million like today.
Okay.
And then finally Greg and Brian we talked about Thailand a bit in terms of your view at least of getting a bit better.
Not asking to give '15 guidance but are there any signs out there that we should expect a different environment in '15 on the macro level not what you're doing internally to drive volumes but on the macro basis that volumes are flat to down again? Are you talking about as a company or is it putting aside Thailand? Putting aside the $1 billion of revenues that are available for sale.
Thinking about North America your core Europe assets or Brazil from a macro basis is there something to tell us that the market should be up in '15? Yes Shawn.
I guess the way we thought about it on a macro basis in North America absent again a breakout we see it putting it all together is sort of flat-to-up low single digits.
In Europe as we -- it's a little tough to read right now.
You see some of the macro headwinds.
We mentioned for example the -- on the -- in our French business a tougher third quarter but we see a positive fourth quarter.
So it's still a bit mix.
So call that maybe sideways.
And in LatAm as I said I think with now let's call it for lack of a better word clarity around the election in Brazil.
Obviously as construction and infrastructure spend go so goes General Cable for the most part.
So we obviously -- as you rightly pointed out we're doing a lot to help ourselves but we need that end-market demand.
And then I would say sort of northern Latin America for lack of a better word can tie into -- ultimately ties into and is driven by a lot of the U.S.
and North American activities.
So again we're doing a lot to help ourselves and so call those markets again in that same zip code as sort of the flat-to-up low single digits.
And Shawn I'm watching also the -- distributors are -- about 40% of our business that's through distributors are channel partner.
As you well know and I'm seeing some mix as slightly positive.
We saw the Anixter results I think Rexel just announced.
It's sort of a mixed story.
But I think consistent with what we're seeing some positive movement in North America particularly the U.S.
The other big piece of our business about 35% of global is utilities and we watch energy demand and their rate cases.
And it's again way off from where we were say 10 years ago but we do see transmission is generally stronger and of course we have wind which has been -- wasn't there 10 years ago.
So I'm watching a lot of the industrial infrastructure companies like Fluor Foster Wheeler others watching the utilities what they're saying and then finally the distributors.
But I think it's -- what we're seeing is fairly consistent with what you're reading on a macro.
But we're generally except for some of our earlier cycle businesses which is part of the company but for the most part we're trailing happy news by some quarters as we watch those things.
We have no further questions.
I would now like to turn our call back over to General Cable.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Salina and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Len Texter Vice President Investor Relations.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Brian will first provide comments on our fourth quarter results.
Greg will then update you on our strategic initiatives leadership transition plans and our first quarter outlook followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our safe harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide #2 as we may refer to adjusted results in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide #4.
I will now turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning everyone.
Overall we are pleased with the strong finish to the year.
We generated adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS in line with our guidance range for the fourth quarter.
Our business in North America remains a source of stability and we continue to execute in our European-based submarine turnkey project business.
We further strengthened our liquidity position as we generated $212 million of adjusted operating cash flow for the full year 2014 and collected cash proceeds of $67 million for the sale of our interest in the Philippines.
Also as Greg will elaborate on shortly we're making significant progress on our strategic initiatives including both our divestiture and restructuring programs.
On Slide 4 unit volume in the fourth quarter excluding the shipment of aerial transmission cables in North America and Brazil was up 2% year-over-year and flat sequentially.
Demand for Electric Utility distribution cables and specialty products in North America more than offset typical seasonal demand patterns and general end market weakness experienced throughout Europe.
Adjusted operating income of $46 million in the fourth quarter principally reflects the relative strength of the company's businesses in North America which improved $4 million year-over-year while significantly reducing inventory.
On Slide 5 in North America adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter increased $4 million year-over-year principally due to the performance of the company's specialty cables business as well as the benefit of restructuring initiatives.
Sequentially adjusted operating income decreased $13 million due to the impact of seasonal demand patterns and planned factory shutdowns.
Overall demand trends remain relatively stable year-over-year as we were capturing important opportunities in key businesses.
We're focused on our self-help cost reduction initiatives.
On Slide 6 in Europe adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter increased $7 million sequentially principally due to the performance of the company's submarine turnkey project business.
We are pleased with the strong performance of this business over the past year as well as our land turnkey project business.
Today our project backlog is around $425 million.
Overall however we continue to experience weakness throughout our flow businesses as unit volume was down approximately 11% year-over-year.
We remain focused on our restructuring program as the announced actions in Europe are expected to generate in the range of $40 million of annual savings which represents more than 3x the region's adjusted operating income over the past 12 months.
On Slide 7 in Latin America adjusted operating income over the second half of 2014 reflects the benefit of restructuring initiatives as well as improved results in Colombia and Central America.
While we shipped significant aerial transmission cables and medium-voltage distribution cables for wind projects in Brazil during the fourth quarter demand throughout Latin America remains uneven as construction spending and GDP growth rates which drives demand for our products continues to be weak throughout the region.
On Slide 8 9 and 10 we've provided a summary of our adjusted operating cash flow debt maturity profile and liquidity position as of the fourth quarter.
We are pleased with the strong management of working capital through year end as we generated $212 million of adjusted operating cash flow for the full year of 2014.
We exceeded our expectations for working capital efficiency principally due to the achievement of inventory reduction targets which generated approximately $200 million of cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Net debt of $1 162 000 000 was down $197 million from the third quarter due to lower seasonal working capital requirements and the use of cash proceeds generated from the sale of the company's interest in the Philippines to reduce outstanding borrowings.
On Slide 10 the company continues to maintain strong liquidity.
We currently have $425 million of availability under our North American and European-based credit facility.
In addition we have approximately $120 million of availability on working capital lines and cash in our Latin American business excluding $30 million in Venezuela.
Collectively we have approximately $570 million of liquidity in the system to fund our core operations in North America Europe and Latin America as well as support the quarterly dividend restructuring program and the anticipated retirement of the $125 million senior floating-rate notes due in April of this year.
Also the company has budgeted capital expenditure in the range of $40 million to $50 million for 2015.
On Slide 11 in Venezuela we adopted the SICAD II currency exchange rate of 50 bolivars per U.S.
dollar to remeasure our local balance sheet which resulted in a reported loss of $91 million in the fourth quarter.
We also incurred noncash charges of approximately $34 million principally for the impairment of property plant and equipment in Venezuela.
After moving to SICAD II there remains approximately $30 million of cash in Venezuela on the balance sheet.
Going forward we will continue to manage Venezuela to the best possible economic outcome and we will continue to exclude Venezuela from our discussion of core operations and financial position.
Next we have recast our reportable segments to align with our current management structure.
We now have 4 reportable segments consisting of North America Latin America Europe and Asia Pacific and Africa.
This presentation aligns with our strategy of portfolio simplification and further enhances the visibility of our core operations.
Before handing the call over to Greg I wanted to provide an update regarding the ongoing FCPA-related investigation.
The general scope of our internal investigation remains broadly consistent with our past disclosures.
Nonetheless the nature of these types of investigations is such that the exact timing required to complete an FCPA-related investigation is challenging to predict and is driven by many factors.
Some of these factors such as the availability of witnesses and the work of third parties including forensic accountants are outside the company's control.
While we previously anticipated concluding our internal investigation during the first quarter of 2015 we now believe subject to any new developments that our internal investigation will be concluded or substantially concluded later in this calendar year.
As we've stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will take the SEC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome may be including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
We also cannot guarantee that the scope of this ongoing investigation will not change or expand in the future as it unfolds.
As we have said before any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines civil and criminal penalties and equitable remedies including disgorgement and injunctive relief.
Separately we continue to make progress enhancing our global compliance program.
And since our last call we have recruited and brought on board an experienced Chief Compliance Officer who reports to the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors as well as the CEO and who is responsible for the day-to-day management of General Cable's compliance function.
With those comments I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Good morning and thanks Brian.
As we've summarized on slides 12 through 14 our focus is on maximizing the value in the current global environment by simplifying our portfolio reducing operational complexity and delivering improved returns from our core strategic operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
To that end we're making significant progress on both our divestiture and restructuring programs.
First on our restructuring program.
We've moved quickly with the sale of our interest in the Philippines which generated cash proceeds of $67 million at the end of last year a significant step.
Equally encouraging is the strong interest we've received thus far for the assets both in Africa and Asia Pacific.
The value of these businesses is high as evidenced by the strong interest and range of suitors.
We are fully engaged with our outside advisers and are extremely pleased with our progress.
Next on our restructuring program on slides 13 and 14.
With the fourth quarter announcement of planned actions in North America and Latin America we've now substantially -- that we have now announced substantially all planned initiatives as originally outlined in July 2014.
We've made tremendous progress since we began the program 7 months ago.
The commitment and focus of our teams has enabled us to act quickly and decisively as we focus on improving the performance of our core operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're targeting approximately $75 million of annual savings with approximately $30 million to $40 million of incremental savings targeted for 2015.
Overall we are focusing on our core markets where we can leverage economies of scale and capitalize on leading positions across key markets.
We've built long-standing customer relationships efficient supply chains and offer a broad range of products.
And we will continue to serve our global customers with higher value-added products and services as we've always done.
This will allow us to focus on building out our expanding position in turnkey projects communications transportation industrial and specialty cables in markets that are generally more willing to pay for high quality and at times application-specific products.
At the same time and due to the ongoing difficult operating environment most recently characterized by the impact of volatile metal prices and lower oil prices we are continuing to carefully evaluate further restructuring actions in our core operations.
Turning to Slide 15.
As a result of our board-led search to identify my successor as CEO we've engaged numerous candidates in the process.
The progress thus far is consistent with our expectations and continues to advance.
Once the successor is identified I'm prepared to stay involved in whatever manner necessary to assist the new CEO and board during this time of transition and sale of our manufacturing operations in Asia Pacific and Africa.
Turning to the first quarter outlook on Slide 16.
Our first quarter outlook excludes results from Venezuela Asia Pacific and Africa.
The company expects adjusted operating income of its core operations consisting of North America Latin America and Europe to be in the range of $10 million to $25 million for the first quarter of 2015.
Our first quarter outlook assumes unit volume is down mid-single digits sequentially due to typical seasonal demand patterns.
The first quarter is typically our slowest period of the year due to lower construction activity principally due to seasonal weather and extended holidays.
We are also assuming a $15 million to $20 million headwind in the first quarter due to the impact of selling higher average cost inventory in a lower metal price environment.
However if this lower metal price environment persists we would expect to generate cash as our investment in working capital declines.
While we cannot clearly -- while we clearly cannot control macroeconomic factors I'm very pleased with our progress on what we can control including our divestiture program and further cost reduction opportunities.
We have a strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce organizational complexity and ensure our laser-focus on increasing returns on core strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're executing on our plan and we're making significant progress in a very short period of time.
We're also in the process of executing our succession plan and adding to our board.
We believe we've made substantial opportunity -- we have substantial opportunities ahead of us and we're committed to generating returns that exceed our cost of capital over a cycle and plan to aggressively manage our core strategic assets to that end.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison.
Brian I guess the first thing I was hoping you could help me out with is just bridging the cash balance here at the end of the year versus what was highlighted in the presentation.
And then also as we look ahead maybe do you have an expectation for cash flow from operations for the year? And if so could you please share that? Sure sure Shawn.
So the cash on the balance sheet is about $205 million $206 million.
And I think if you go to Slide 10 in the investor deck the pieces are -- the table is just the core operations right? So $74 million of cash.
And then you see in the footnote there's about $102 million in the non-core operations.
So that $74 million plus $102 million plus $30 million in Venezuela is the balance sheet the $206 million on the balance sheet.
And then so Shawn with respect to 2015 we're not -- as you can see when we've looked at that all the moving pieces we brought our guidance into a quarter at a time.
So I'm going to avoid giving a full 2015 cash flow forecast.
But what I would say is clearly we exceeded our expectations in Q4 very strong cash flow.
We are able to use the cash plus the divestiture proceeds to reduce debt.
And as we look forward to '15 you can see we talked a little bit about so far broadly -- and we'll talk in more detail here I'm sure around the business broadly volumes broadly sideways let's say.
And metals have come down right? And so we should all things being equal that if metals stay down metal prices will -- we should expect to see a nice cash flow benefit.
But ordinary course I think working capital in 2015 again given our over-delivery or exceeding our expectations in Q4 there's probably some opportunity on working capital.
But like I said it's probably in the -- maybe up to $50 million of more working capital in a steady state.
Shawn the other thing I want to point out is this is Greg we did say that CapEx would be in the $40 million to $50 million range for the company.
And that would be less than half of depreciation.
Got you.
And I guess a couple of follow-ups just given the shift in the -- to exclude a couple aspects of the business model but maybe what is your metal exposure right now going to be going forward? And I know you used to provide another number but shifting out Asia Pac and Africa just kind of your annual maybe copper and aluminum exposure if you can provide that.
And also just kind of what core operating expenses tax rate looks like going forward on the core? Yes Shawn so on the core operating expenses I think maybe you're referring to the core sort of run rate on selling general and admin? Yes.
Yes okay.
Yes so we're doing a lot of work and we're continuing to look at everything including combinations of work and the like.
But I would say at this point in a steady state on the core SG&amp;A maybe in the let's call it in the $350 million to $400 million range.
On the tax rate I think we continue let's say probably still in that 35% to 40% range but migrating down as we continue with both the disco ops and the restructuring.
We get some of -- we get this noise out of many of these operations where we've got these full valuation allowances against the tax assets.
So let's call it 35% to 40% but migrating down.
And in terms of metal exposure Shawn I guess overall we've talked about a first -- a 1Q metal headwind in the $15 million to $20 million range.
I would say even in our core operations our markets our end markets and our selling prices can behave differently depending upon where we are onto the demand and the utilization curve.
So I guess what I would say is in terms of looking forward around metal volatility I would almost sort of do a pro rata reduction for the Asian and African businesses coming out.
So we've said that's what 15% to 20% of revenue base? So Shawn that's kind of how I would think about it.
Okay.
I guess the 15% to 20% is that the reason why that headwind was maybe a little bit lower than you would have seen previously given such a precipitous drop in copper prices? Yes Shawn it's maybe -- yes Shawn I would [ph] be part of it.
But I would say actually it's more around -- well actually other contributing factors let's say include -- as we said we had a good synergy in our North American business and the volumes remain quite stable.
So I would say there is some positive news on the core business which helps.
And then I would say the other piece of it is just some of the I'll call it the way that some of the Latin markets work and the European markets in terms of our ability to pass along price.
So I see those are all contributing factors.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman.
Research Division</strong> Can you just update us on what you're planning to do in terms of addressing the upcoming April 2015 notes? Do you plan on using the facility or try to go back to the market? Yes Brent.
Obviously we'll be very careful here.
But our intention as we've said for quite some time is to use the revolver and you can see from the cash generation and the way that we're really laser-focused on the working capital management that we're in a very good place to do that.
And that's -- so our intention is to use the revolver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Brian under SICAD II I guess you'll look at the currency impact every quarter just based on whatever that floating rate is.
Is that the right way to think about it? That's correct.
That's correct yes.
So yes as we -- in the -- as you saw in the comments -- and we've been saying for a while right that we had this remaining risk around the balance sheet in the Venezuela balance sheet.
So you're going to the SICAD II rate.
There's about $30 million left of cash on the balance sheet.
And we'll continue to watch that Brent very very very closely.
And the final question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> First it looks like NSW had a strong contribution in the quarter.
Can you talk about what happened in that business maybe how much it contributed in the fourth quarter and then how you're looking at the business for fiscal '15? Yes.
Noelle no you're correct.
The NSW business is performing very well.
And as you can see from the results it's a business that can be -- it's more than -- even more than our other businesses nonlinear let's call it.
So you see in fact in Europe on an adjusted basis we lost money in Q3.
And then in Q4 we had a return to profitability and much of that's driven by the NSW business.
So I can't give you the -- I'm not going to give you the specific profitability of NSW but what I would say is when we broadly -- when you broadly look at Europe NSW is doing very well meaningful contributor to the quarter.
And as we said the business is -- I'll call it the flow business is in Spain and France a little more challenged but again a lot of activity happening in those markets as well in terms of cost containment and reduction.
Noelle I'd add that the NSW team great leadership and they've done a nice job really moving into the -- which is a traditional business of submarine fiber optics.
And then of course the offshore work is lumpy in terms of projects won but they're working hard on really getting a nice spread of activities.
And looking further forward it looks like a nice group of projects to go ahead and bid on in the '16 '17 '18 timeframe.
So I'm encouraged by the leadership and the position.
And then they've done a really nice job on installation work as well as deep into the completion of window of work on some of the big projects we won.
So nice progress and able to contribute strongly but not linear and obviously on the North Sea now which is the bulk of the activity.
There's very little going on with the weather so that creates a little bit of a lumpiness quarter-to-quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in North America it looks like you saw a nice uptick in electric distribution market in the quarter.
I'm wondering if that was kind of just maybe utilities flushing out their budget before year end or if you think you're starting to see a more fundamental improvement in that market? And then secondly can you address how much exposure you have in North America to the oil and gas markets? And if you saw any sort of slowdown there in the quarter? Yes I think you've put your hand on a trend we're watching.
As you know from some of the prior conference calls that North American distribution which was always pretty -- this is the medium voltage cables used by the utilities was always plus or minus 10% or 15% from a median.
And we saw that market fall almost by half from say the last recession 2001 2003 offset a little bit by the wind which is some of the same types of cables.
But when you talk about pure utility distribution it was way off and we've now reported a couple of years of 3% kind of growth from a very low and sort of never seen bottom.
And actually I'm encouraged.
I think the team is.
We saw people as spend money at the end of the year it looks like people are going after maintenance items.
I think they can get a return of the utilities on this investment which obviously had helped drive transmission demand up nicely over the last 5 years.
So we're watching but it feels better and we did have a nice end to the quarter.
So I think not yet a trend but maybe it might accelerate but we have to see.
We've only -- it's still early but it has been ticking up now for a couple of years but very slowly surprisingly slowly.
On the oil and gas sorry Noelle I -- about 7% of our ongoing business is -- this is the core operations as we call it is tied to offshore drilling offshore production onshore drilling onshore production and then a variety of submersible cables.
And we would -- and this is business that is obviously some of the most demanding cable types for very harsh environments.
And it's a business that you can use sometimes the equipment for other things but we expect to have a headwind in that business as people cut back.
Again they haven't cut back on the production side but they're cutting back on the exploration side.
So we would expect that to be a headwind in 2015.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a couple more questions.
You maybe reticent to talk about this but just given the update on the Asian-African assets and moving forward with that sale maybe you could talk a little bit about the timing.
I know you said it could take up to 2 years.
Do you think some things could happen here in the near term? And any update on how you're thinking about just the potential proceeds from a very high level would be helpful.
Yes I mean there's -- we're encouraged by the interest on certain core assets.
We have engaged Standard Chartered and HSBC -- I'm sorry Brian.
No what I was -- we're doing very well.
As I said we've -- as Greg's alluding to we've got advisers signed up in all the jurisdictions high level of interest.
It's -- we cannot say with precision but we're feeling let's say very positive and the Philippines was a tremendous early start.
In terms of application of proceeds right now again we would see -- our priority remains around debt reduction managing the working capital tightly.
And so let's see how we do.
Again we're on a very very good path but we don't control all the pieces.
So the other piece -- I want to come back to on Shawn's question around the metal headwind the other contributing factor which is an important factor is the inventory levels.
So the reduction in inventory levels we should take credit for that because the team really did a tremendous job in Q4.
And that helps to alleviate some of that headwind the lower inventory levels.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have one last question which is just that given the decline in the stock price the dividend yield has sort of risen to about 6.5%.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about the dividend at this point? It sounds like you're pretty committed to it but maybe if you could just update us on your thinking? Yes absolutely.
We're committed to it.
We think about it as a -- we've described it as 30% to 40% of our adjusted net income in terms of the payout ratio.
Obviously the dividend alone is well ahead of that.
So I think it continues to be something that we're very committed to.
And then again we've demonstrated the strong cash flow the strong discipline around the working capital.
So we'll continue to watch everything very very closely Noelle but the punchline is we're very committed to it.
And the next question comes from Shawn Harrison.
Just a couple of questions on the restructuring.
So $40 million is tied to Europe.
How much now is -- of that remaining $35 million is associated with North America versus Latin America? Yes.
Shawn this is Len.
I'd say you're probably looking maybe $20 million to $25 million in the North American business and then the balance would fall into principally our Latin business.
Okay.
And I guess as a follow-up on that with Latin America profitability below where I'm guessing you'd like it to be and the comment on additional restructuring I mean what would be a target margin for that business as we look 18 months out? And if you can -- if you do announce further restructuring would we expect to hear about that within the next 3 to 6 months? Yes.
Shawn it's Brian.
I would say we're doing a lot to help ourselves obviously.
And so the challenge as we -- as you saw or heard in our prepared remarks is a lot around the end markets.
So challenging conditions overall in LATAM.
But we would say and we're obviously pushing for is the businesses that look get back to that over a cycle sort of mid-single digit EBIT margin or even better actually.
Whether that happens in 18 months again a lot of that's going to be out of our control with the things in our control.
As we described it controlling the controllables is absolutely where we're focused.
With respect to anything else we might do in the timing there we're again carefully evaluating the number of ideas.
And so again to predict the timing I don't want to get out in front of that.
But all I can -- as you can see we're on this path of execution and we just wanted to -- the point the very important point is we continue to examine everything that we're doing very very carefully.
Okay.
And then I guess 2 follow-up questions.
Just the -- I guess as you move to the credit facility the $125 million what would be the expected change in interest expense per quarter? And then second I guess Venezuela why now move to SICAD II? Yes.
On the interest expense Shawn it's broadly a push.
The floating-rate notes are 230 basis points over LIBOR.
And going on to the ABL it's in the same area code.
So it's not a big difference.
And with respect to Venezuela again everything is facts and circumstances.
You follow a lot of other companies that have gone -- that have been impacted by Venezuela some even going as far as what they call deconsolidation.
So for us it's really -- you can -- you start with sort of the macro which you see in the press everyday with respect to the conditions on the ground.
And then for us as General Cable we drill it into -- we've got a significant input cost which is copper.
And so again our facts and circumstances at this point led us to an accounting conclusion to go to the SICAD II rate.
We are very plugged into it.
We will continue as we said to manage it to the best possible economic outcome and continue to call out Venezuela just so you all have visibility to it.
Okay.
And just finally on that so there's a $30 million amount of cash sitting in Venezuela.
Are the assets totally written down to 0 or what is the value of the assets now in Venezuela that you have on the books? Yes.
Yes that's right Shawn the $30 million is broadly cash.
So the 130-some-odd million dollar overall charge for Venezuela had 2 pieces to it.
One was the monetary assets we wrote down.
The other piece was the impairment of the fixed assets or the property plant and equipment.
And the PP&amp;E now is written down to 0 or is there...
Yes to be 0 -- it's 0.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available later today on our website.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and Ill be your conference facilitator.
Id like to welcome everyone to the General Cable Corporation's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should anyone have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers remarks.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Greg Kenny our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our Web site at generalcable.com.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Brian will first provide comments on our first quarter results.
Greg will then update you on our strategic initiatives leadership transition plans and our second quarter outlook followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on Slide 2 as we will refer to adjusted results in today's call.
To begin please turn to Slide 4.
Ill now turn the call over to Brian Robinson.
Brian? Thank you Len.
Good morning everyone.
Overall we are pleased with the strong start to the year.
We are executing our strategic plan driving performance improvement in our core operations tightly managing working capital and reducing debt.
Our first quarter results reflect the Companys ability to capture and execute on project activity and key businesses in Europe and North America.
We generated $80 million of cash in the first quarter through the management of working capital in our core operations building on the strong cash flow generated at the end of 2014.
We also reduced net debt by $108 million and maintained availability of $391 million under our North American and European based credit facility after retiring the $125 million senior floating rate notes.
Also as Greg will elaborate on shortly we continue to make significant progress on our strategic initiatives including both our divestiture and restructuring programs.
On Slide 4 net sales for the first quarter were flat year-over-year and down 8% sequentially on a metal adjusted basis which included unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements of $97 million and $62 million respectively.
Excluding the shipment of aerial transmission cables in North America and Brazil and restructuring actions in Europe year-over-year unit volume in the first quarter was up 3% principally due to demand for electric utility distribution cables and rod and strip products in North America.
Sequentially unit volume was down 6% principally due to weakness throughout Latin America and typical seasonality.
Adjusted operating income of $48 million reflects a strong performance of the European submarine turnkey project business and continued stability in North America.
The first quarter also reflects the benefit of restructuring savings which we estimate was in the range of $8 million.
These results were partially offset by the impact of selling higher weighted average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment which we estimate was in the range of $5 million to $10 million.
The metal cost headwind was lower than expected as copper prices increased in the later part of the quarter.
Other expense of $25 million principally reflects the adoption of the SIMADI currency exchange system in Venezuela and remeasurement of the local balance sheet at 193 Bolivars per U.S dollar which resulted in an expense of $22 million.
We will continue to manage Venezuela to the best possible economic outcome and continue to exclude Venezuela from our discussion of core operations and financial position.
On Slide 5 North America remains a source of ongoing stability.
Adjusted operating income for the first quarter reflects the Companys ability to capture project activity in the electric utility distribution and telecommunication businesses as well as the benefit of restructuring actions.
These trends more than offset seasonal demand patterns and the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment.
On Slide 6 in Europe adjusted operating income for the first quarter reflects the strong production and contract service activity in the submarine turnkey project business as well as the benefit of restructuring actions.
End market demand in Spain and France also improved sequentially during the first quarter albeit at relatively low levels.
We are pleased with the continued performance of our submarine turnkey project business a project backlog including both subsea and land.
It was $325 million at the end of the first quarter.
On Slide 7 overall demand in Latin America remains uneven due to weak construction spending and GDP growth rates.
However adjusted operating income for the first quarter improved year-over-year due to the benefit of restructuring actions.
On Slide 8 and 9 we provided a summary of our debt maturity profile and liquidity position as of the end of the first quarter.
Net debt of 1 054 million was down $108 million from the first quarter due to the continued tight management of working capital which generated $80 million of cash in our core operations.
We also applied cash proceeds of $21 million from the sale of the Companys interest in joint ventures in Fiji and China to reduce outstanding borrowings.
On Slide 9 we currently have $391 million of availability under our North American and European based credit facility after retiring a $125 million senior floating rate notes.
In addition weve over $110 million of availability on working capital lines and cash in our Latin American businesses excluding $8 million of cash in Venezuela.
Collectively weve $530 million of liquidity in the system to fund our core operations in North America Europe and Latin America as well as support the quarterly dividend and restructuring program.
Also the Company has budgeted capital expenditures in the range of $40 million to $50 million for 2015.
We are well positioned to fund the business including working capital requirements restructuring activities and quarterly dividends.
Before handing the call over to Greg I wanted to provide an update regarding the ongoing FCPA related investigation.
The general scope of our internal investigation remains broadly consistent with our past disclosures and we continue to believe subject to any new developments that our internal investigation will be concluded or substantially concluded later in this calendar year.
As weve stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will take the FCC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome maybe including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
We also cannot guarantee that the scope of this ongoing investigation will not change or expand in the future as it unfolds.
As weve said before any determination that our operations or activities that are not in compliance with existing laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines civil and criminal penalties and equitable remedies including disgorgement and injunctive relief.
In February of this year based on the analysis completed at that time with the assistance of our external counsel and forensic accountants we concluded that we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of profit derived from sales made to Angolan government and public utilities that we believe are likely to ultimately bid the discourse in connection with our ongoing investigation.
As a result we recorded an estimated charge in the amount of $24 million as an accrual as of December 31 2014.
The accrued amount reflects only an estimate of the Angola related profit is reasonably likely to be disgorged and does not include a provision for any fines civil or criminal penalties or other relief.
There has been no change in the amount of accruals since it was put in place in February.
With those comments Ill turn the call over to Greg.
Greg? Good morning and thanks Brian.
As we've summarized on Slides 10 through 13 we are executing on our strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and deliver improved returns from our core strategic operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
First on our divestiture program.
We continue to build on the momentum generated at the end of 2014 which include the sale of our interest in the Philippines for cash proceeds of $67 million.
During the first quarter we complete the sale of our interest in joint ventures in Fiji and China for cash proceeds of $21 million.
We are fully engaged with our outside financial advisors and are actively managing the sale process of the remaining assets throughout Asia Pacific and Africa.
Next on our restructuring program on Slides 11 and 12.
In the first quarter we announced incremental restructuring actions aimed at further SG&amp;A cost reductions and asset optimization in North America and Europe.
We expect these incremental actions to result in a one-time pre-tax charge in the range of $25 million including approximately $15 million of cash and an annual savings of $15 million.
We continue to make progress on the restructuring initiatives originally announced in July 2014 which represents an estimated annual savings of $75 million.
Collectively we are now targeting $90 million in annual savings from restructuring activities.
We are targeting incremental savings for 2015 in the range of $30 million to $40 million with the remaining balance of restructuring savings to be realized in 2016.
In the first quarter we estimate the benefit of restructuring savings was in the range of $8 million.
Turning to Slide 13 the search to identify my successor as CEO continues to progress under close management of our outside directors.
We are conducting a thorough search and have met with numerous qualified candidates.
Once a successor is identified I remain committed to ensuring a smooth transition for the new CEO.
Turning to the second quarter outlook on Slide 14 the Company expects adjusted operating income of its core operations consisting of North America Latin America and Europe to be in the range of $40 million to $55 million.
Our second quarter outlook assumes low single-digit unit volume improvement sequentially.
Overall we expect the impact of normal seasonal demand incremental restructuring savings and subsiding metal costs headwinds to offset the impact of lower project activity in our European submarine turnkey project business as well as our electric utility distribution and telecommunications businesses in North America.
Our second quarter outlook excludes results from Venezuela Asia-Pacific and Africa.
We remain committed to our strategy of simplifying our portfolio reducing organizational complexity and increasing returns on strategic assets in North America Latin America and Europe.
We have generated significant moment in our core markets where we are leveraging economies of scale and capitalizing on leading positions in key end markets.
We have announced incremental cost reduction and asset optimization actions in North America and Europe and continue to evaluate further opportunities to drive efficiencies.
We believe these actions are improving both our near-term performance as well as positioning us for long-term success in our core operations in North America Latin America and Europe.
We are confident in our strategic plans to optimize our business reduce costs and drive efficiencies.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The Q2 outlook doesnt suggest kind of a typical seasonal step up in revenue and earnings you tended to see in the past.
And I was wondering that there was any sort of pull forward in project activity in the Q1 that might helped you? Yes that's a great question.
We actually have gotten -- made nice progress on existing projects in the North Sea under percentage of completion accounting and that was a bit of a pull forward as well as some of the -- we're seeing some strong wind activity in the first quarter which are generally project specific and of course the transmission side is always lumpy.
You're right typically we see a little bit of a pickup in the second quarter versus the first.
We continue to run the business lean and we will -- we look for that pickup and try to go get it.
But right now we can see the projects moving a bit which is basically good news.
Sure.
And then it looks like all the major product lines from a sales perspective were down year-on-year except communications.
Can you just talk about what you saw on that piece of the business? In the communications we continue -- thats a big and important part of the company historically.
It's depending on how you define the signaling.
It's a business that's in the $700 million $800 million range globally.
We have really worked hard on the data cable which was which includes copper and fiber.
Weve seen some strength there.
Weve actually seen a bit of strength again at very low levels on the copper telephone cable business which is a historic business that's been under attack from other technology source really a replacement business but that was a bit stronger in the first quarter.
And I would say a lot of the work we are doing from an innovation side of things has been focused on the communications cable business so we have come a very long way.
We have also seen for some of our micro sheath designs in Europe just fiber optics very nice demand as well.
So lots of focus on our communications.
I think it's paying dividends and that market is we have a important position.
I think we are viewed as a leader in terms of the development and it's paying some nice dividends for us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
This is Reuben in for Matt.
Good morning Reuben.
Good morning.
On the restructuring savings you said youve recognized $8 million in the first quarter and are anticipating $30 million to $40 million for the year.
Can you talk about the $8 million versus what you had expected going into Q1 and maybe how to think about progression of the $30 million to $40 million over the rest of the year? How much is baked into your guidance for Q2 and maybe Q3 and Q4 to think about? Sure.
So Id say that the savings are generally what we expected in Q1.
When we -- I will answer the question may be in terms of half of the year so Id say there will be a greater weighting of the savings in the second half of the year.
And so second quarter I see this stay consistent with the first quarter.
So we continue work through the whole -- the entire process.
It's a very important process particularly in our operations in Europe.
But as know were pleased that were generally on track with what we said -- where we started back in July 14 and thats how I see it falling in 2015.
Okay.
And some of the labor negotiations that you have going on in Europe is some of that savings baked into that $30 million and $40 million for the backup or is that kind of icing on the cake if it happens? No it's all baked in.
Okay.
And then I guess on top of to that point SG&amp;A this quarter I think we had in the $76 million or $78 million range.
Can you kind of talk about what may be a normal run rate is for the rest of the year X the Asia-Pacific and Africa? Yes I was going to say Reuben that.
The number you quoted there is the excluding -- those operations so that 70 I think you said $76 million.
Right.
Yes I think that's an appropriate run rate.
I'd say we -- again we are very pleased with the strategic direction we are on.
We are -- as you can tell from our comments we are working very hard with the divestiture or working very hard in the restructuring and working very hard on the base business.
And part and parcel of that has been the focus on SG&amp;A and cost efforts.
And so I think what we're seeing in the first quarter is in many ways a combination of many of those efforts.
So a strong performance in the business and I think its really shown the explosiveness in the operating model.
But yes Reuben Id say the run rate on SG&amp;A is -- again it would be plus or minus but its -- were moving towards this order of magnitude.
Okay perfect.
And then on the gross margin line it looks like you outperformed what we were expecting and what the street was expecting.
How do we think about what that level is going to be like for the rest of the year especially with copper kind of improving here lately can you give us any idea what to look for? Yes.
I think its -- I think what Greg mentioned earlier and we talked about a very strong first quarter.
And as we move into the second quarter there are number of items which are in our favor and there are some things that are -- that present some headwinds.
So it's hard to give you precise direction but I would -- surely echo I would echo Gregs comments around what we're seeing on the electric utility spent.
I think the importance of the German offshore submarine power cable business I think tremendous credit to that team who has continued to execute very well.
So I would say -- and again with the rise in metal prices you get some distortion on the margin profile.
But so you would have to factor that into your modeling but again a strong start as we move into the rest of the year I would say we will continue to focus on these priorities.
Okay.
And did you quantify how much of the benefit -- I know the European submarine business is called out several times did you quantify how much of the benefit that you thought that was this quarter relative to what you were expecting? We didnt.
But I would say the way the business is falling in both in terms of the work and in some of the percentage of completion accounting is we see it as say mid teens kind of EBIT margin in the first half of the year.
And so that's how I describe it.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I apologize if I missed this at the very beginning of the call.
It took me a while to get logged on.
But you mentioned in your materials that the copper headwind in the quarter was less than you were forecasting.
So it looks like maybe below that $15 million to $20 million level.
Can you just quantify what the headwind was in the quarter? And then I know you kind of just talked about this on the last question but how youre thinking about that potential benefit as we move into the second quarter because it looks like it could be pretty sizeable? Yes the -- I think Noelle our guidance was $15 million -- we expect it about $15 million to $20 million headwind we believe that was actually $5 million to $10 million.
Okay.
So lets call at the midpoint about $10 million better than we thought but still about $5 million to $10 million headwind in Q1.
And what made it less than you were expecting? I mean copper -- it didnt move up towards the end of the quarter but I would say overall it was pretty low to be a better pricing than you were anticipating or was there anything outside that fit [ph] into that? Yes I think there were a couple of components to it Noelle.
I think part of it is the way the quarter falls right.
So we -- as we started into the construction season March is an important period.
So youve got to -- pretty good weighting of volumes until March and then -- again they will also attribute some to our ability to move price into whole price.
So I would say it's a combination of factors.
Okay.
And then if you could comment on the strength youve got in the distribution market in the quarter.
Do you think there was any seasonal impact in terms of that acceleration or do you feel like you're starting to see a more broad-based acceleration in investment and distribution infrastructure? Noelle youre talking about the electrical distribution? Electrical distribution in the U.S.
You know its up a bit.
Its funny Noelle the high point for the -- if you take investor-owned utilities was in 2006 it fell to -- 2013 it was dropping a bit.
It's up over the 2013 levels and up year-over-year I would say low double-digits.
We will have to see how she plays but this is back to -- as we talked about before we never saw the investment fall as much as it did in this last cycle.
And it would be much stickier historically as people would go from low voltage to medium voltage.
So that's a -- that's good news.
We also -- then you have the utilities that are owned by the municipalities and that's a little more sluggish.
Wind was strong in the first quarter but we still think it will be down from sort of the peak period say in 2008 and transmission wont be around the 2012 levels but still above the trough levels.
So net net what we were hoping for and have waited patiently and we talked about at improving slightly in a couple percent being sort of medium voltage or distribution business to the investor-owned utilities that's actually picking up a bit.
We'll have to see if its sustaining.
But right now it feels better than it has.
Okay.
And then moving back to the restructuring action this incremental $15 million of savings that you are looking to achieve it looks like thats largely U.S and Europe.
So how can we think about that $30 million to $40 million that you're targeting for this year in terms of where those savings will fall across the region? And the second part of that question would be Latin America.
You're still struggling there with losses.
I understand the first quarter is typically weak because of seasonality but does that another -- do you have to look at some additional actions within Latin America to really get back to acceptable levels of profitability? Yes.
So the $30 million to $40 million is still really weighted towards Europe and North America Id say with the predominance in Europe.
That's how I would frame that.
And with respect to Latin America yes clearly macroeconomic headwinds and as weve gone down the strategic path and weve really leveraged so much of the existing know-how in the business into the Americas we feel very good about what we are doing in Latin America.
So we will be measured -- we will be patient we will be measuring our patience.
We understand it's a critical part of the Company.
The team in Latin America understand it is a critical part of the Company.
So we are focused on it and -- its back to the theme as you had seen -- heard so much around here is its controlling the controllables and we will monitor and will be ready when the markets improve.
We're not done Noelle.
We are always looking for better ways to do things.
So that's sort of kind of the hardwired and we continue to look at.
Well Latin America is choppy with a relatively weaker global commodity spending and pricing and Brazil has its own issues.
We are continuing to think outside the box and everything from SG&amp;A to envelopes and that's just not Latin America it's everywhere.
So we are committed to getting a strong return on capital and being very focused with customers.
We are -- we have very nice positions in all three major geographic areas.
So we'll just keep banging away but we are -- fundamentally you are never done.
You're always looking outside the box to see if you can get better.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from [indiscernible] with Longbow Research.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
This is Garcia [ph] on behalf of Shawn Harrison.
First I thought that you had said that subsea project backlog was $125 million.
Can you confirm that if I heard that correctly? And if that's true it seems like it's quite -- down quite a bit if you could kind of address why? No I think in regards to the project backlog including subsea and land it would be a $325 million.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
All right.
And then secondly I was hoping for some color about the timeline for the restructuring savings.
You mentioned its $30 million to $40 million.
What about the timeline for the new $15 million? How should we think about that incremental? Yes we see that -- well those actions are underway and we see that falling into 2016.
Okay.
Is it the early part or throughout the -- I mean the first half of the year or ? Maybe a little early to call it by quarter but we -- on a full-year basis our expectation is to capture the full benefit.
Okay.
And then just about CapEx and free cash flow what are you thinking? It seems like -- I think you said that CapEx [indiscernible] to a $40 million to $50 million for this year.
What are your thoughts on free cash flow? Well again our priorities remain consistent.
So we finished 2014 with a very strong cash flow.
We have a very strong first quarter.
We see CapEx in the $40 million to $50 million area with respect to the core operations.
And from a capital allocation perspective we talked about being it say 30% to 40% of adjusted net income over time.
And that is really -- and so we continue to support the dividend and continue to execute on our key priorities.
Okay great.
So I think those are the main pieces of the free cash flow as we move forward.
Great.
Okay.
And then lastly weve seen press reports about mergers and potential stakeout.
I was just wondering if you could comment.
What I would comment is -- again we believe the best effort for the company is the path that we are on.
And you can see it -- you're starting to see it in the numbers and we are going to continue on this path.
Clearly if there were -- if there was someone came forward with an offer the Board would have a [indiscernible] duty to consider that offer relative to the Company's internal plan.
But our most important job right now is to continue to focus -- to continue to keep employees focused and we believe in this plan and we believe in this business and this Company.
So that's where we are focused.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Gary Farber with C.L.
King.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning.
Just a couple of questions.
One is can you discuss the competitive environment separately in North America and Europe? Has it -- what is it look like today? You know Gary the demand is generally -- is sideways in North America.
You can see bits and pieces of some seasonality.
Some things is getting hot and cold a bit but it is generally the same major players we talked about competitor moving into the aluminum building wire business which has impacted the profitability of the segment.
But broadly it's always intense because it's completed on a daily basis or annual depending upon the type of agreements but no new changes in North America.
I would say the basis is pretty stable in Latin America as well in terms of the incumbents are there.
Europe has had -- there has been a lot of restructuring announcements within -- announced by competitors including us and I would say Europe it depends on the country but its slightly on the mend and again there is still lots of capacity chasing work as the area is generally under pressure from the Middle East or in the Eastern Europe in terms of volume.
But I like what weve done on our cost side.
Weve got a lot of wonderful niches in Europe including the extra high voltage cable submarine and our communications businesses is doing well.
So I would say restructuring is generally been -- talked about or done by competitors particularly in Europe.
But there seems to be not as much capacity being put into the industry after some years of sluggish demand and financial recession.
And eventually that will come back together with building demand and reduced capacity and that will be a strong runway.
What we can do -- the only thing we can control is obviously work the niches and keep endlessly driving costs.
I am very proud of the team who is really pushing hard to both sell [ph] a great number of units globally as well as we were ahead on all the restructuring things.
We're starting to see the benefit of that and we are still in close touch with our key customers.
We are out in front of them and that's all good stuff.
So basically more of the same other than Europe with sort of a midst of a long-term restructuring broadly.
Great okay.
And also in regards to the sale of the assets you have remaining is that possible that will be complete by the end of the third quarter? Gary its Brian.
I think I want to get pinned down to a specific date.
I think maybe what I would say is as we said a very -- an active process we are further along Id say in Asia than were in Africa.
And there is certainly a scenario where we got some thing to say by the -- in these middle quarters of the year.
But I would really not get pinned down because it is full of -- these are dynamic processes and we've got to get through them and get them complete.
Okay.
And then just lastly can you provide an update on how you think about depreciation and amortization for this year? Yes so [indiscernible] Id say this year lets call it about $90 million at the midpoint.
Okay all right.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
Our next question comes from Noelle Dilts with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi.
A couple of follow-ups.
So first on -- in terms of non-res weve heard from other players that theyre starting to see a bit more attraction on the non-res front in the U.S.
Is that a market that you feel like youre starting to see turn? Yes we look at all the same things you dont do know well and its the non-res has many pieces from energy driven pieces to shopping malls to new factories.
But looking at our numbers I think there is probably a little bit of strength coming through -- again you have got transit stronger than energy exploration and production cables for example now.
So it depends on the segment.
But as weve said many times that resi and non-resi broadly lift with the bodes and you can see it as we talked about earlier in the -- a bit more spending by the utilities in the distribution network which is kind of a derivative of that non-res action.
But I'm cautiously optimistic Noelle that it feels okay.
Again a lot of discussion about dollar versus euro and how that impacts Manufacturing spend etc but broadly it feels okay.
And then to what extent -- oh sorry.
But it's moving sideways and maybe slightly up and I think youve been publishing on those kinds of numbers out there.
Yes.
And then to what extent -- you didn't mention really oil and gas much.
I mean do you feel like you are seeing some impact from particularly the slowing upstream market or any of the sort of derivative impacts that we have heard about from other companies with exposure to the industrial market? Youre absolutely right Noelle.
Again it takes a while to see the slowdown but we have -- as we have talked about previously around $300 million to $400 million of global -- of cable sold to the oil and gas sector.
This is really the exploration production side about a third of its offshore two thirds onshore.
We are working hard to have look at other uses for that equipment.
It is not always specific to just one oil and gas market and we guess that could be down 20% in the second half of the year which will be a bit of a headwind but we have got other markets that are bit stronger.
So we got to keep that in front of us.
We are -- secondarily obvious oil and gas and some of the derivatives impact our jacketing materials and other things.
So it plays a bunch of different ways specific the cover for the cables themselves.
So it's something we watch and are we want to keep those machines booked and we look for other work to the extent that they are not booked with oil and gas.
Okay.
And then can you walk us through the change in the exchange rate in Venezuela and how that impacted in the remaining value that in terms of assets that are Venezuela had on the balance sheet? Noelle the -- so we went with the SIMADI rate which was the new -- the latest new exchange rate system in Venezuela.
The overall charge was $22 million which included a small component which was inventory related.
We are left with about $8 million to $10 million on the books.
So as we said we are focused on managing this to the best the best possible outcome.
And as we said before we don't count on it and our liquidity its a lockbox but it's about $8 million to $10 million on the balance sheet.
Okay.
Thanks.
Youre welcome.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the presenters.
End of Q&amp;A Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our Web site later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lindsey and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to the General Cable Corporation's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objection you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers' remarks.
Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Mike McDonnell our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you have not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Mike will provide some opening comments including an overview of our second quarter results and third quarter outlook.
Brian will then provide some additional details on our second quarter and financial position.
And finally Mike will conclude our call with a few summary comments immediately followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on slide number two as we will be making forward-looking statements and referring to adjusted results in today call.
To begin please turn to slide five.
I will now turn the call over to Mike McDonnell.
Mike? Thanks Len.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call this morning.
I'm honored and excited to be part of the General Cable team.
This morning I'll share with you what attracted me to General Cable what I've seen in my first 30 days and give some insights into our key priorities for the future as well as provide a summary of our second quarter results.
First though I'd like to recognize and thank my predecessor Greg Kenny.
As President and CEO for the past 14 years Greg has been a selfless and admired leader.
His passion and commitment helped General Cable become a global leader in the wire and cable industry.
Greg and I have been engaged in a very smooth and thorough transition and I'm deeply appreciative of his time and insight as I takeover and come up to speed.
I was attracted to General Cable because of the company's core strengths and leadership positions which when coupled with the right strategies and strong disciplined executions can enable the team to take the company to another level and create substantial shareholder value.
During my first 30 days I've dug-in in nearly every aspect of the company meeting with employees and customers reviewing businesses and manufacturing sites in both North America and in Europe.
And I will be in Latin America in a little over a week.
I've done preliminary assessments of our strengths and weaknesses in our market and cost positions and our competitive advantages and disadvantages in the core markets we serve.
It's still early in the process but so far I found that General Cable has the essential components to operate at a substantially higher profit level.
We have a high caliber of talent that are committed to the future with a strong desire to win.
The core values of the company including accountability and ownership mentality and integrity are shared by our associates and these values are deeply shared by me.
We serve an array of end-use markets with positive long-term fundamentals including power transmission and distribution communications and various more specialized products for applications such as transit industrial automation wind and a variety of others.
A majority of our revenues are derived from businesses that have strong defensible positions in the regional markets.
And we've made significant progress towards a competitive cost structure that can support sustainable value creation.
Our mission then is to build on these strengths through disciplined operational execution in order to create long-term shareholder value all of which are aligned with my experience strengths and passion.
I've spent my year in  my career in industrial and manufacturing companies with both public and private equity experience.
And my private equity experience focused on operational excellence accretive growth investments and disciplined execution culture which will serve General Cable well.
One of my priorities with the company is to partner with the management team to ensure we have a culture of integrity across the global organization.
As you know earlier this year we named the company's first standalone Chief Compliance Officer.
And under his direction we're building a robust ethics and compliance program that incorporates comprehensive systems and discipline processes for ongoing risk assessments training communications proactive audits and handling and management of reported concerns.
Our program is intended to prevent the issues from occurring while detecting issues quickly when they do arise and responding in an efficient and effective manner.
As we continue to bring our ongoing FCPA-related investigations to conclusions we're taking the lessons learned from these investigations to create a comprehensive program that will support our business now and in the future.
When fully implemented our program will enable us to advance our never-ending mission to earn and maintain the trust of our customers employees shareholders and other stakeholders.
Brian will give you a brief update on the current status of our ongoing investigations.
We continue to expect to complete our internal investigations by the end of the year and we will take the lessons learned from this experience to be an even stronger company going forward.
At the same time I'm confident in our ability to drive success in the company.
My confidence is based on three simple observations: first that General Cable has the necessary strengths and a variety of opportunities as I have already stated; second the company is developing a strong track record of delivering on its financial targets; third meaningful actions for the future are already well advanced into the execution phase.
The restructuring and divestiture actions that are underway and on plan will provide us with a more focused set of core businesses a more competitive cost structure and a more nimble organization.
We're committed to completing these actions according to our original plan.
However this is just the start.
I'm now working with our board and the management team to develop a new strategic roadmap to generate substantial growth and long-term shareholder value.
The focus of the new strategic roadmap will build on our leading positions where we have competitive strengths and scale as well as optimize our asset base and cost structure.
I want to thank the General Cable team for their hard work and focus.
We generated strong results in the second quarter due to the team's continued and consistent operational execution.
Adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS for the second quarter were at the upper end of our guidance range and we continue to tightly manage working capital.
Adjusted operating income in the second quarter and for the first half of the year were up year- over-year principally driven by restructuring savings of $8 million and $16 million respectively strong project execution in our land and submarine turnkey businesses in Europe performance improvement in our electric utility and communication businesses in North America and strong operational execution throughout Latin America.
With respect to end market demand in North America volume was stable through the first half of the year though there was some variation quarter-to-quarter due to project timing for distribution cables and wind farms.
We're experiencing some recovery in maintenance CapEx spending as demand through the first half of the year for distribution cables was up low single-digits year-over-year.
Transmission sales were strong and ahead of last year through the first half of this year.
We're also driving sales in our communications business with our continuing strong connectivity partnership and a richer mix of higher value products including specialty fiber.
Demand for products tied to construction spending improved except for those linked to OGP which remains under pressure.
In Europe we're encouraged by the ongoing bidding activity in our land and submarine turnkey businesses leveraging our demonstrated performance and installation capabilities.
Our electric utility sales were stable due to our leading position with transmission operators.
Overall end market demand in Western Europe for products tied to construction spending was also stable albeit at low levels.
Unit volume was down year-over-year principally due to the impact of restructuring activity as we exited certain low value end markets in Spain.
In Latin America demand was down through the first half of the year due to weak construction spending and infrastructure investment.
We also experienced temporary customer delays for aerial transmission cables in Brazil during the second quarter which are anticipated to ship later this year.
With respect to the third quarter operating results are expected to be impacted by lower metal prices and lower project activity in our submarine turnkey business.
These trends are anticipated to be partially offset by restructuring savings in the range of $8 million to $10 million.
We're on track to realize annual savings from restructuring actions in the range of $30 million to $40 million in 2015.
Overall volume sequentially is expected to be flat as lower seasonal demand in Europe is expected to be offset by a shipment of transmission cables in Brazil.
And now I'll turn the call over to Brian Robinson to review our second quarter results.
Brian? Thank you Mike.
On slide seven net sales on a metal adjusted basis for the second quarter were down 2% year-over-year excluding foreign currency exchange rate movements of $135 million and 5% sequentially.
Overall unit volume was down 12% year-over-year and 8% sequentially which is principally due to the weak end market demand experienced throughout Latin America including the intermittent delay of aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil and the exit of certain low value end markets in Europe.
Adjusted operating income of $55 million reflects restructuring savings of $8 million and the consistent execution of the submarine turnkey project business in Europe as well as the electric utility and communication businesses in North America.
During the first half of 2015 we have generated $103 million of adjusted operating income which was up approximately 50% year-over-year and 20% versus the second half of 2014.
On slide eight in North America adjusted operating income for the second quarter of $44 million increased 13% sequentially and 19% year-over-year.
During the first half of 2015 we have generated $83 million of adjusted operating income which is up 12% versus the first half of 2014.
This improvement reflects the benefit of restructuring savings as well as the improved performance of the electric utility and communications businesses.
Overall demand for the first half of the year was up 6% versus the first half of 2014.
We were capturing projects in both transmission and distribution with the latter more heavily weighted to the first quarter.
Our communications businesses continue to drive sales through higher value add projects including Cat 6 and Cat 6A as well as specialty and premise fiber.
On slide nine in Europe during the first half of 2015 we generated $26 million of adjusted operating income which is more than three times the adjusted operating income generated in the first half of 2014.
This improvement reflects a strong production and contract service and installation activity in the submarine turnkey project business as well as the benefit of restructuring actions in Spain.
Our project backlog including both subsea and land was at $225 million at the end of the second quarter.
End market demand in Western Europe remained stable during the second quarter albeit at relatively low levels for construction related products.
Reported revenue through the first half of the year includes the impact of $126 million of unfavorable foreign currency movements due to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
On slide 10 demand throughout Latin America remains uneven due to weak construction spending and GDP growth rates.
Adjusted operating income for the second quarter improved sequentially due to the continued improvement in operational execution and the benefit of restructuring actions.
Adjusted operating income for the first half of 2015 improved $10 million versus the first half of 2014.
On slide 12 and 13 we provided a summary of our debt maturity profile and liquidity position as of the end of the second quarter.
Net debt of $1.093 billion was down $126 million from the end of 2014 due to the continued tight management of working capital which generated $75 million of cash in our core operations and the use of cash proceeds generated from divestitures.
On slide 13 we currently have $375 million of availability under our North American and European based credit facility.
In addition we have $64 million of availability on working capital lines and cash in our Latin American businesses.
Collectively we have $477 million of liquidity in the system.
We are well-positioned to fund the business including working capital requirements restructuring activities and quarterly dividends.
As we've summarized on slide 15 we remain focused on executing our strategic plan to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and deliver improved results in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're pleased with the execution and positive momentum we have achieved since announcing the divesture program in October.
During the second quarter we announced a definitive agreement to sell our remaining Asia Pacific operations consisting of businesses in Thailand China New Zealand and Australia for cash consideration of approximately $205 million.
We previously completed the sale of our interest in joint ventures in the Philippines China and Fiji which together generated $88 million of cash proceeds.
Upon completion of the sale of our Asia Pacific operations we will have generated approximately $293 million of cash proceeds from the divestitures which is consistent with our previously communicated expectations before the divestiture of Africa.
Next on our restructuring program during the second quarter we implemented additional SG&amp;A cost reductions and asset optimization plans including the realignment of the North American aluminum building wire business and our operations and Colombia.
We also completed the sale of a manufacturing facility in Spain.
We continue to target $90 million of annual savings from restructuring actions including 2015 savings in the range of $30 million to $40 million and $40 million to $50 million of incremental savings to be realized in 2016.
In the second quarter we estimate the benefit of restructuring savings was in the range of $8 million.
Before handing the call over to Mike I would like to provide an update regarding the ongoing FCPA-related investigation focused on Angola India and Thailand.
As we continue to make substantial progress in completing our work with respect to the investigation in those locations we are also currently reviewing certain transactions in our Egypt and China businesses that may raise concerns under FCPA.
The SEC and DOJ are aware of scope of our ongoing internal investigation and we continue to fully cooperate with them as we complete our review.
The company's work with respect to Angola India and Thailand is substantially complete and despite this expansion of scope we continue to believe subject to any new developments that our internal FCPA-related investigation will be completed by the end of the year.
And we anticipate presenting our findings on these matters to the SEC and DOJ including with respect to the transactions under review in Egypt and China before year-end.
As we stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will take the SEC or DOJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome may be including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
With those comments I will turn the call back over to Mike.
Mike? Thanks Brian.
As I outlined earlier we're developing a strategic roadmap which builds on our competitive strengths and scale that will generate substantial and sustainable shareholder value.
Over the next four to six months as our strategic work advances we're committed to communicating our plans and actions to our investors with ample dialog and transparency.
While we're managing through some challenges in the near term we're absolutely focused on operational execution.
We're making significant progress in optimizing our asset and cost base driving performance improvement in key end markets and in generating cash.
Look forward to meeting all of you in the coming months as I get out on the road to see our investors to share more about our strengths and opportunities to improve performance.
That concludes our prepared remarks and now I will turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
And your first question comes from the line of Matt McCall with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Can you hear me? Matt? We can hear you Matt.
Okay sorry.
So first welcome Mike.
Look forward to working with you.
My pleasure.
Yeah.
I know you're going to talk about a lot of this in the coming months but hopefully I will get a  maybe a couple of these answers.
But I was interested by your comments around the substantially higher margin potential profit potential profit margin potential of the business.
I assume you're talking mostly about gross margin and I'm just wondering if you can provide any initial insight on some high-level thinking around the margin improvement potential? Yes.
Great question Matt.
Let me start off with that.
Look as we look at our industry and in this current environment if we take an average adjusted income margin for the last couple of years the industry-leading margin you could call it around 7% plus or minus.
And we're at 4% in the same period.
So that's a gap that has implications and has to be closed.
And our aspiration and commitment is to close that over time.
If you look at what we've already committed to in terms of our restructuring program that gets us almost halfway there.
But that still leaves a sizable gap and the strategies that we'll be developing over the next months including both how we can build on our strengths and how we can enhance further our operational execution our operational excellence and work on our asset optimization and cost structure.
We have confidence that we're going to close that gap.
There's no reason we shouldn't be able to operate this company at a significantly enhanced margin.
Obviously I'll have more to say about that as we continue to do our work.
General Cable has a lot of pieces to it.
And what we're doing right now and what I'm doing is really trying to understand each of those pieces and see how we put together the right pieces for the future to really unlock the value in the company and align our cost structure and asset composition to drive that strategy in the right way.
And I think there's terrific opportunity as I said in my opening remarks to do that and I'm very excited to be here to help this company do that.
Okay.
And so  thanks for that.
So from a product perspective you guys discussed this quarter some low-margin calling.
Do you see more mix? How big of a component is mix going to be? And I guess that that would be on the low-margin calling side so lifting margins from the mix efforts and as you looked at the suite of products globally now are there any obvious gaps in any of the geographies? I think the numbers show that there are clearly some gaps.
I am not going to comment on them right now.
But I will say that we do see more opportunity and the management team is very focused on that.
In fact they've been focused on that before I got here around those low margin products.
You heard us referred to Spain and exit of certain low value markets and so forth.
Look we're not employed here to run businesses at breakeven or less.
And so we're going to root those out and figure out how to fix them or get out of them.
Okay.
Okay.
Understood.
One more maybe for you Brian.
The guidance range is fairly wide.
Can you talk about some of the variables that would take you from 2 or to 22? Yeah.
Matt when you walk forward sequentially and the biggest impacts when you peal through are really the metals impact which is as you know over time is short term in nature we work our way through that.
And then the other piece of it is the sequential walk forward in terms of the project business in Europe that primarily being the NSW business the submarine power cable business.
And if you recall we talked about that last quarter that we expected a strong first half to the year.
And because of the way the order pattern was falling we expected a tougher second half which will be partially offset by the restructuring savings.
So I think as we walk forward that is really the biggest impact that has been moved to sort of second quarter to third quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
Okay.
What I wanted to add is in the rest of the businesses we are really seeing  the word we used is stable and the businesses continue to perform.
And as Mike said I think it's  the exit of the low value add business in Spain is a good example of that we're not standing still as we work through all the various analyses.
Perfect perfect.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
Thank you Matt.
Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.A.
Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Welcome Mike.
We are all anxious to get a sense for your broader vision here.
So look forward to hearing to that in the coming months.
I look forward to talking with you about it.
I guess just kind of looking at the balance sheet financial position liquidity and as you look at this do you have some kind of defined leverage targets in mind that you like to get the company back to? Yeah.
So Brent good morning.
It's Brian.
Hey Brian.
So we are pleased with the progress we're making.
You can see that we've stepped leverage down from year-end.
You can see that we're  this focus on working capital has been very powerful for us.
So in short I would say when we think about leverage we like to notionally move towards more sort of a 2 time leverage target.
I think we started on a good path to that.
And in the working capital as you know is very meaningful and all this before the divestiture proceeds.
So we continue to focus on moving forward on the closing of the Asian sales here in the third quarter.
But again making good progress and we'd like to work our way towards sort of a 2 times kind of a leverage target.
Perfect.
Thank you for that.
And then just trying to get a feel for the environment in Europe it looks like there are some moving parts.
If you looked at volume outside of the  kind of the project submarine businesses as well as the kind of products you have exited here what do see in there? Are we bouncing along the bottom or are you still kind of seeing ongoing pressure? I can give you a little insight on that.
I think  one thing we have to recognize is in Q3 we have a typical European seasonality with the holiday period and so forth.
But the fundamentals of underlying demand in Europe we see is pretty stable right now.
I think there are some signs of some improvement.
I think it's very early to make a call on that.
But it also looks to me like it's stable and is unlikely to go in the other direction either.
So I think that's good news compared to what we've been through in Europe for the last few years and I think there's every reason to believe that we'll have a stable and maybe slightly improving environment into the future.
But I think most of our work is going to be through  and most of our performance in Europe is going to be as a result of what we do as a management team and the actions that we drive.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
First off Mike congratulations on the appointment.
Thank you.
Happy to be here.
Just a high-level question as I listened to you speak about rooting out underperforming businesses getting to kind of an industry-leading EBIT margin if you think about General Cable regionally are you thinking that every region will have to be at that 7% range? Or will you expect to see certain regions above that? And you're kind of targeting maybe the business regionally on an ROI basis.
Just kind of speak to how you view General Cable regionally versus kind of this high  7% margin goal.
Yeah.
Well -- look that's a great question and a lot more of that's going to come out as we move forward.
But remember that we have very high concentration in one region and that's North America less so in Europe and Latin America very small.
I think the performance impact and improvement is possible in all regions and it will come in different ways right? Because we have some very substantial strengths in certain parts of the company that can be built on and ultimately we want to drive long-term growth accretive growth in those segments.
And there will be some lower margin areas where we decide hey we either have to make some changes in order to be able to substantially complete  sustainably or we are going to have make other choices there.
So I think it's going to be a mix of everything.
But we're not going to ignore any obvious issues and we're going to make sure that we drive value where the improvement is based on competitive strengths in the company.
So it's going to be more focused and it's going to be real focus on operational execution.
Okay.
Helpful.
And Brian I have a few I guess clarifications.
Metal prices what were they both on a copper and aluminum side that you had for the second quarter? It's $2.77 and $0.80.
Oh.
Thanks Brian.
And then second just on the restructuring program if I remember correctly $10 million of synergies were realized I believe on a run rate basis exiting the fourth quarter of last year.
The $8 million was that an annualized number here for the second quarter? And I guess how much on a total run rate basis would you achieve now through I guess exiting the second quarter with last year and this year combined? Yeah Shawn.
We think $8 million for 2015 as  let's called it a per quarter number.
So cumulative through mid-year 2015 call it $26 million.
So the $10 million from the second half of last year and then $16 million to the first half of 2015 and all of that growing up to $30 million to $40 million incremental in 2015.
Okay.
So another maybe $8 million would be in the back half of the year in terms of an incremental that you're going to be at? Per quarter so call it another $16 million for the second half.
Okay.
Got you.
And then last question the thing  I guess it stood out to me in the presentation was 30% to 40% free cash flow return to shareholders over the course of the cycle.
I can't remember if there was a previously articulated goal if there was what was it? And I guess  if not what led to kind of this target right now in terms of 30% or 40% return? Yeah.
So we've used the 30% to 40%- and we call it adjusted net income Shawn and we've used the words over cycle.
So as you know we put the dividend in a couple of years ago.
And the way I would think about it and  is that like everything we continue to look at the dividend analyze the dividend relative to our financial position our performance.
And what I would expect is as we continue this work on the business and where we are going to play and where we're going to really drive that performance you should expect behind a refinement of our capital allocation policy.
So it's front and center it's another part of the analysis that were undertaking with respect to really Mike's immersion into the company and the business.
Okay.
Helpful Brian.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to General Cable.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lindsey and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer period after the speakers' remarks.
Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Vice President of Finance Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Mike McDonnell our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Mike will provide some opening comments including an update on our strategic review and an overview of our third quarter results and fourth quarter outlook.
Brian will then provide some additional details on our third quarter and financial position.
And finally Mike will conclude our call with a few summary comments immediately followed by a question-and-answer period.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on slide number two as we will be making forward-looking statements and referring to adjusted results in today call.
To begin please turn to slide five.
I'll now turn the call over to Mike McDonnell.
Mike? Thanks Len.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on the call this morning.
As you know we're in the process of conducting a deep dive into our business and developing a detailed strategic roadmap that we plan to share with you all in the early part of next year.
Today I'd like to talk a bit about how we're thinking about that roadmap based on the work we've done so far.
As I see it the company has reached an important pivot point.
Over the last year we've executed well on our strategic objectives including substantial restructuring and divestiture plans.
We generated $26 million in cost savings from the announced restructuring program year-to-date and are on track to achieve the full target of $90 million by 2016.
Our divestiture program has so far yielded proceeds of $176 million with more to come.
We've also improved the consistency of our execution in the business achieving our earnings guidance now for four consecutive quarters.
We continue to efficiently manage working capital and see further opportunity.
Clearly we're building momentum and investors are beginning to take notice.
Brian and I met extensively with investors during the third quarter including more than 55 one-on-ones.
The feedback we've heard was that in general investors like our direction in terms of simplification of the company and the businesses restructuring and consistency of operational execution.
And they are beginning to appreciate the progress we're making as we set a path forward toward the goal of industry-leading performance in the markets that we compete.
We've made good progress on our strategic roadmap.
We're currently working with a strong sense of urgency in four areas.
First how we'll continue to focus and optimize our portfolio in order to leverage our strengths into value creation in a disciplined way.
Second how we'll optimize our assets and cost structure to build a truly-competitive cost position.
Third how we'll continue to cultivate an improved culture of performance including a world-class compliance program.
And fourth how best to measure performance improvement of both the individual businesses and the overall company with greater transparency to investors? So first let me talk a little bit about focusing and optimizing our portfolio.
In our view wire and cable is a tough but good industry.
Many end markets have very solid long-term fundamentals.
For example growth in power transmission and distribution is driven by increased use of renewables grid reliability and efficiency and replacement of aging infrastructure.
Industrial production and automation in non-residential construction helped to drive our industrial construction and specialty businesses.
Increased demand for bandwidth and connectivity drive our communication businesses.
These are fundamentally good drivers.
We also see opportunity for focused innovation in the wire and cable industry leveraging the sciences of surfaces and materials to improve wire and cable products and technologies.
So based on all of these and many other factors we believe we can serve these attractive markets and earn good returns.
Many of our businesses are well aligned to these end markets and fundamental drivers.
As we look at our portfolio we're prioritizing our businesses according to a set of strategic and financial criteria.
These include market position scale cost position alignment with attractive market drivers opportunities for value creation and the ability to meet certain financial criteria including growth sustainable margin and return on invested capital.
We'll communicate more on these parameters early next year.
Now we have many businesses that are close to meeting most of these strategic criteria and that represents somewhere near 75% of our portfolio.
We have many additional businesses in the portfolio that have the potential to meet these criteria in a reasonable timeframe with modest resource requirements.
Now it's important to note that historically as the company grew over the last decade some of our acquired businesses were sub-scale and introduced significant complexity into the company.
Our current divestiture program has already identified Asia-Pacific and Africa as regions within our portfolio that did not meet our strategic criteria.
And as you know we're in the process of exiting these.
There are of course additional businesses that might fall into the sub-scale category where we may need to look at alternatives.
Our roadmap will identify a portfolio strategy to maximize value and a strategic and financial framework to allocate resources to drive targeted results.
Next let me comment on optimizing the asset base that number two.
We're also analyzing opportunities to further optimize our asset base and overall cost structure to develop a lean efficient enterprise with leading cost position.
We're focused on areas such as our manufacturing and logistics footprints.
Sometimes a small example helps to illustrate the opportunity that we have for streamlining our asset base.
Let me share one with you.
Some of our product lines can be produced at multiple sites within a region.
If for example if one of these sits were sub-scale there could be an opportunity to consolidate that production into a site with greater scale.
This could result in reduced production cost through reduced set-ups and changeover scrap improved labor efficiencies lower freight and more importantly handling costs and more efficient capacity utilization.
Now we've already demonstrated that we can generate value from this type of asset optimization through our current restructuring program.
And we're currently analyzing opportunities to do more of this.
We're really working this very hard and I'm feeling even more confident that the opportunities are real and executable.
Now turning to our culture.
As we move forward we also see the opportunity to improve our performance culture within the company.
We're looking at ways to motivate and engage our employees our associates and foster an organization where all of our associates are valued and make a difference.
We believe we have a significant opportunity to cultivate a high-performance culture centered on the highest ethical and compliance standards greater accountability and ownership mentality and aligned incentives.
We believe these efforts will further improve our execution as we move forward.
Remember our people are the foundation of all that we do.
I appreciate their commitment and hard work and I'm making it a real priority to earn their trust and loyalty.
Now about measuring our progress I've already said many times that I see opportunity for substantial value creation at General Cable.
I try to give you an early sense of the magnitude of that opportunity we have here at the company.
For example I told you that I believe we can achieve an industry-leading operating margin which over the recent past has been around 7% during the same period we performed at about 4%.
Where does my confidence come from? Well let's look at where we're today.
About a third of our portfolio was already operating at or close to the target another third is in that 3% to 5% range and the final third is under 3% with some businesses at zero.
We see substantial opportunities to improve the businesses in all three of these ranges and especially in the lower 2%.
We already have significant momentum and some line of sight toward our goal of achieving industry-leading margins through our current restructuring program which should improve our operating margin by about 125 basis points.
As we finalize our roadmap and began implementing the key elements of the portfolio and asset optimization we believe we're creating the path that will help lead us the rest of the way.
As we develop our detailed plans we're also thinking about how we can improve visibility by providing you with metrics that better indicate how our business is performing.
We've already mentioned operating margin but our roadmap will include a set of metrics and targets to help you track our performance and better understand the progress we're making.
Before handing the call over to Brian who will review our third quarter financial results I wanted to also share a few highlights from the third quarter including some of the market trends we're seeing over the second half of the year.
Adjusted operating income and adjusted EPS were well ahead of our guidance range for the third quarter.
This is due to strong results generated in our subsea power cable business in Europe our restructuring savings and continued performance of our North American businesses.
In our subsea power cable business we achieved important milestones during the third quarter as the company's Baltic 2 project nears completion which at this point entails energizing the cable and final inspection.
As you recall this is a significant multi-year project that is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.
And it's an important testimonial to our performance culture and teamwork as we've made significant progress in turning around this business following the challenges experienced a couple of years ago.
Next our restructuring program is also on track as we generated $10 million of savings in the third quarter.
We remain on track with our annual savings target with an incremental $30 million to $40 million achieved in 2015.
Finally we're encouraged by the continued strong performance of our operations in North America particularly in the electric utility businesses as we continue to capture projects for grid hardening and reinforcement as well as transmission projects.
We're also encouraged by the performance of our communications business specifically networking premise cables where our customer focus on connectivity partnership continue to drive positive results.
Partially offsetting these trends in North America is the impact of lower demand for industrial and specialty cables particularly those tied to oil and gas.
Partially offsetting these trends was the impact of demand trends throughout Latin America which remained under pressure due to the tough economic conditions there and reduced government spending.
We are however continuing to set the stage for improvement through our restructuring activities where we've announced and are now implementing plans to consolidate facilities in Brazil and Colombia which together these two countries account for just under half of our end market demand in the region.
Also demand trends in Europe continue to be mixed.
Unit volume in our electric utility business has been stable particularly for medium and high voltage cables including land turnkey projects.
These trends have been more than offset by lower demand for low voltage construction products and industrial cables specifically those tied to oil and gas.
With respect to the fourth quarter operating results are expected to be impacted by seasonal demand patterns including seasonal plant shutdowns and lower project activity in our subsea power cable business.
These trends are expected to be partially offset by incremental restructuring savings in the range of $8 million to $10 million in the fourth quarter.
We remain on track with our annual savings target of $90 million in 2016.
Overall we believe we're heading in the right direction and clearly there's a lot to be done.
However I'm confident we can do it and in doing so deliver value to our shareholders.
Okay I'll now turn the call over to Brian Robinson who will review with us the third quarter results in more detail.
Brian? Thank you Mike.
On slide seven unit volume was down 8% year-over-year and 2% sequentially which is principally due to the continued pressure on end market demand throughout Latin America and the exit from certain low value-add markets in Europe.
Adjusted operating income of $47 million reflects restructuring savings of $10 million and the consistent execution of the subsea power business in Europe as well as the electric utility and communication businesses in North America.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we have generated $150 million of adjusted operating income which is up approximately 36% year-over-year.
On slide eight in North America adjusted operating income for the third quarter of $33 million declined 25% sequentially and 26% year-over-year principally due to the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment the impact of lower demand for industrial and specialty cables and weaker end market demand in Canada particularly for products tied to construction and oil and gas applications.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we've generated $116 million of adjusted operating income which is consistent with prior year and reflects the benefit of restructuring savings as well as the improved performance of the electric utility and communications businesses.
Overall demand for the first nine months of the year was up 5% in North America versus the first nine months of 2014.
We are capturing transmission and distribution projects for grid expansion and reinforcement.
Our communications business has continued to drive sales for higher value-add products including Cat 6 and Cat 6A as well as specialty and premise fiber.
On slide nine in Europe adjusted operating income for the third quarter of $16 million increased $5 million sequentially and $18 million year-over-year principally due to the achievement of important project milestones in the company's subsea power cable business.
Through the first nine months of 2015 we generated $42 million of adjusted operating income which is seven times the adjusted operating income generated in the first nine months of 2014.
This improvement reflects the strong production contract service and installation activity in the submarine turnkey project business as well as the benefit of restructuring actions.
Our project backlog including both subsea and land was $215 million at the end of the third quarter.
End market demand in Western Europe for electric utility cables including land and subsea projects was stable during the third quarter which helped to offset lower demand for industrial and construction related products.
Reported revenue through the first nine months of the year includes the impact of $189 million of unfavorable foreign currency movements due to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
On slide 10 despite the challenging macro environment in Latin America marked by volatile currencies and low commodity prices weak construction spending and slowing growth rates we're continuing to implement our restructuring actions to drive savings and improve our operational execution.
Through the first nine months of 2015 adjusted operating income has improved 33% versus the first nine months of 2014.
As we've summarized on slide 12 we remain focused on executing our plan to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and deliver improved returns in North America Latin America and Europe.
We're pleased with the execution and positive momentum we've achieved since announcing the divestiture program about one year ago.
During the third quarter we completed the sale of Thailand for cash consideration of approximately $88 million.
We've previously completed the sale of our interest in joint ventures in the Philippines China and Fiji which together generated $88 million of cash proceeds.
In total we have generated a $176 million of cash proceeds from divestitures which is consistent with our previously communicated expectations.
We are managing an active process and pressing forward with the divestitures of our operations in Africa and the remaining operations in Asia-Pacific including China New Zealand Australia and India.
Next on our restructuring program.
We continue to make progress on our restructuring initiatives with the implementation of previously announced actions in our North American electronics business and our operations in Brazil were we're consolidating facilities to drive improvement and lower our cost position.
Through the first nine months of the year we've generated approximately $26 million of savings from restructuring actions this year.
We continue to target $90 million of annual savings from restructuring actions including total 2015 savings in the range of $30 million to $40 million and $40 million to $50 million of incremental savings to be realized in 2016.
In the third quarter we estimate that benefit of restructuring savings was in the range of $10 million.
On slide 14 we provide a summary of our debt maturity profile position as of the third quarter.
Net debt of a $1.14 billion was down more than $200 million from the end of 2014 and down $79 million from the second quarter due to the continued tight management of working capital and cash proceeds generated from divestitures.
We currently have $369 million of availability under our North American and European based credit facility.
In addition we have $60 million of availability on working capital lines and cash on our Latin American businesses.
We're well-positioned to fund the business including working capital requirements restructuring activities and quarterly dividends.
Before handing the call back over to Mike I wanted to update you on a couple of important matters.
First we continue to make substantial progress in completing our work with respect to our previously-disclosed FCPA-related investigation.
We continue to fully cooperate with the SEC and DoJ as we complete our review.
And we continue to believe subject to any new developments that our internal FCPA-related investigations will be completed by the end of the year.
As we've stated before once we complete our internal review we cannot predict how long it will the SEC or DoJ to conclude their work or what the ultimate outcome may be including the amount of any fines or penalties we may pay.
The second item relates to the accounting treatment of Venezuela.
As of October 2 2015 we concluded that due to the increasingly restricted exchange control regime that has limited access to U.S.
dollars in Venezuela combined with government-imposed limitations on our ability to import raw material into Venezuela and otherwise exert operational control over the business there we no longer meet the accounting criteria for control over operations in Venezuela.
Therefore in accordance with applicable accounting standards we deconsolidated the Venezuelan subsidiary and beginning in the fourth quarter we'll account the investment using the cost method.
We made this change effective October 2 2015 and fully impaired the cost investment to fair value or zero by recording a charge of $12 million during the third quarter.
With these comments I'll turn the call over to Mike.
Mike? Thanks Brian.
As I outlined earlier we're making significant progress in our evaluation of our businesses and the development of our strategic roadmap which builds on our competitive strengths and scale.
Over the next couple of months as our strategic work advances we're committed to communicating our plans and actions to our investors with ample dialog.
Our strategic review again is focused on optimizing our portfolio in order to leverage our strengths and the value creation in a disciplined way optimizing our asset and cost structure to build our competitive cost position cultivating an improved culture of performance including a world-class compliance program and utilizing key metrics to measure our progress and performance improvement of both the individual businesses in the overall company.
Overall the past quarter presents some near-term challenges from a macro perspective; we're driving performance improvement in our key markets optimizing our asset base and cost position and generating cash.
We're on the right path to generating substantial and sustainable shareholder value and I look forward to continuing on our dialog as we move forward.
Also I want to recognize the continued focus and operational execution of our associates around the world that produce another strong quarterly performance.
I thank you for your commitment and hard work.
It will continue to serve as the backbone for our success.
As I've mentioned we intend to share more details on our plan and how we plan to accomplish all this in early 2016.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us with taking questions.
Operator? Our first question comes from the line of Brent Thielman with D.
A.
Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Brent.
Nice job on the gross margins.
Can we think about this kind of 11% to 12% range you've been reporting last couple of quarters as a sort of a new baseline for the company going forward? Yeah Brent I think we're really  it's starting to establish a new baseline right.
We're starting to see the restructuring benefit come through which helps both the EBIT margin; it helps us move from that 4% to 7% target that we've talked about the industry-leading margin.
And obviously a big knock-on effect into the gross margin because so much of this is on the cost footprint.
So yes we believe we're firmly headed in the right direction.
Sure.
Okay.
And then Brian can you help me frame a little bit more around SG&amp;A.
What that should sort of look like going forward I guess without Venezuela and Thailand kind of out of the picture? Yeah.
Brent so I would say we would still see  we see SG&amp;A in 2015 on an adjusted basis taking out some of the charges and the like in the  let's call it $290 million to $305 million range.
And as we move forward into 2016 I would  look it's an area we'll continue to focus on.
But I'd put it in that same sort of order of magnitude.
Okay.
And then just want to understand the Venezuelan accounting treatment a little bit better.
So if there were changes in policy there around some of the items you guys mentioned would you have to consolidate that back into results? Yes.
If circumstances were to change I would say significantly under GAAP we would be back into consolidating.
And to be clear we  so in our balance sheet today after the $12 million charge in Q3 we have no  basically we've written the investment down to zero.
So there's no more exposure in our balance sheet right now with respect to Venezuela.
Okay.
Great.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Brent.
Our next question comes from the line of Shawn Harrison with Longbow Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning Shawn.
Hey Shawn.
Wanted to just dig into little bit on cash flow.
It looks like you've seasonally burned operating cash flow this quarter but you're at $50 million of cash flow from operations for the year.
Do you expect or do you have a number that you're targeting for the end of the year knowing last quarter or last year you've put up a huge inventory reduction and lot of cash flow generation exit the year.
Yeah.
Hi Shawn it's Brian.
This year  to your very point  we had a significant finish to the end of last year in bringing down and really managing the working capital very efficiently.
In the third quarter we had some of the payments with respect to our metals come through.
So that hurts a bit from a working capital perspective.
But as we move into the fourth quarter I do not expect such a significant reduction as we had last year.
I do expect some cash generation let's call it in the order of magnitude from maybe working capital perspective in the $25 million area.
We also have on some of our projects significant or I should say meaningful cash flow.
So with that background let's say we see cash generation but not in the order of magnitude that we had in Q4 last year.
Okay.
And then following up there was  I don't know -maybe the best term is a disagreement with one of the asset sales this quarter if we can get an update there and just where you are in progress in terms of selling the rest of the assets to hit the cash target.
You bet.
You bet.
So yes we sold Thailand for $88 million and as part of that deal we'd also  the buyer did not close on China and New Zealand and Australia.
So what we're doing Shawn is these are businesses that have we believe significant value.
We are retaining the value in those businesses both through internal resources and using some external resources.
And we are continuing to manage a very active process.
So we'll keep investors informed as we move forward but that's what we're doing right now is really like I said managing and retaining value.
In the asset in Africa can those be sold before the investigations are complete? Yeah.
The way I would look at it Shawn as we have interested parties.
We have meaningful discussions going on right now with respect to divesting the assets.
We've a good level of interest.
And as we said on our side our investigative work we expect to conclude this year.
So from a timing perspective it's coming together.
And I think with respect to the  as the investigation being out there it's a consideration that we're managing through both internally and with potential buyers.
Okay.
Perfect.
And just one final clarification before I hop back in queue for the third quarter what did you have as the price per pound for both copper and aluminum.
Finance Investor Relations</span></strong> Shawn it was $2.40 for copper and $0.72 on aluminum.
Okay.
Thank you Len.
Finance Investor Relations</span></strong> Yep.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to General Cable.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Thanks for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Heidi and I will be your conference facilitator.
I would like to welcome everyone to General Cable Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
This conference is being recorded at the request of General Cable.
Should you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
All participants have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
There will be a question-and-answer session after the speakers' remarks.
Thank you.
General Cable you may begin your conference.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Good morning everyone and welcome to General Cable's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
I'm Len Texter Senior Vice President of Finance Investor Relations.
Joining me this morning are Mike McDonnell our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Robinson our Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be accompanied by a slide presentation which is available on our website at generalcable.com.
If you've not downloaded a copy we recommend that you do so as we will refer to the presentation throughout our prepared remarks today.
On today's call Mike will provide an update on our strategic roadmap and an overview of our fourth quarter results and first quarter outlook.
Brian will then provide some additional details on our fourth quarter results and financial position as well an update on the company's FCPA investigation.
Before we get started I wanted to call your attention to our Safe Harbor provision regarding forward-looking statements and company-defined non-GAAP financial measures as defined on slide number two as we will be making forward-looking statements and referring to adjusted results in today call.
To begin please turn to slide five.
I will now turn the call over to Mike McDonnell.
Thanks Len.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
During the fourth quarter we made some very good progress on executing a number of key initiatives and today we'd like to provide you with an update on that progress.
Brian and I will take you through the fourth quarter results in a few minutes but first let me say a few words about our strategic roadmap where I'm very pleased to report that we have moved from the planning analysis stage to beginning execution.
As you will recall on our last call we identified certain key areas of focus.
Leveraging our scale and leadership positions our focus will be on the markets where we have leading positions and strong businesses in utility communications and industrial markets.
Second optimizing our cost structure.
Third aligning our organizational structure and enhancing certain capabilities.
And fourth creating a spirited culture that enhances the performance of our talented and dedicated workforce.
Our goals are to achieve long-term sustainable growth clear competitive advantage a leading competitive cost position and operating margin improvement.
Our strategic roadmap anticipates industry-leading EBIT margins of 7% in the markets we serve.
To achieve this we have identified and developed detailed execution plans for multiple major initiatives across a number of categories.
We plan to have an Investor Day in March to talk through this plan targets timelines and metrics in detail but I'd like to give you some color now on the progress we've made during the fourth quarter on two components of that roadmap: simplifying and optimizing the portfolio and developing a leading cost and efficiency position.
As I've said before we believe wire and cable is fundamentally a good industry.
Most end markets have solid and attractive long-term fundamentals.
Growth drivers including increased power demand grid reliability renewable energy sources efficiency and replacement of aging infrastructure industrial production and nonresidential construction.
And in communications the increased demand for bandwidth and connectivity.
There is also substantial opportunity for innovation in this manufacturing industry.
Product innovation can leverage advances in surface and material sciences including polymer science and metallurgy particularly from other industries as we've already done in certain cases.
Service innovation can be developed through our partner relationships with our customers.
And operational innovation capitalizes on improvements in machine productivity material flows and supply chain efficiency opportunities.
There is much potential in all of these areas in this industry.
Now we've been in a process of carefully evaluating all of our businesses against a set of strategic and financial criteria including market position scale and cost position alignment with attractive market drivers opportunities for innovation and value creation and ability to meet certain metrics including growth sustainable margins and return on invested capital.
We've now substantially completed our analysis across the entire portfolio and have started to execute against that strategic plan in the fourth quarter.
We've also finalized the financial framework to allocate resources to drive the targeted results.
So let me be clear.
General Cable has very many strengths.
We have leading positions in utility communications and industrial markets.
We serve these markets with a broad product portfolio with strong innovation potential.
And importantly we have a large number of very talented dedicated and hardworking people.
We're going to focus on these businesses to develop their growth potential scale and efficiency.
However there's clearly room for continued improvement in the overall business and product portfolio.
As the company grew over the past some of our businesses were sub-scale and introduced substantial complexity into the company.
We've already identified and taken action in Asia-Pacific and Africa regions where it doesn't make sense for us to continue to operate.
At this time we've also identified businesses currently representing about 20% of our portfolio that may not be able to achieve our criteria.
We're now looking at plans to either sell these businesses or to determine if they can be improved in the near-term with the addition of modest resources.
We've also completed an analysis of product profitability and identified opportunities for further complexity reduction by rationalizing low volume and low margin products.
Now I'll turn to driving a leading cost position.
Our goal is to achieve a leading service cost and efficiency position and that is critical to the success of General Cable going forward.
We'll do this by restructuring and optimizing our manufacturing footprint and our supply chain to drive cost savings improve scale and efficiency and become a more nimble streamlined company.
We've identified a number of areas where our current manufacturing footprint lacks proper scale to be competitive long-term.
Additionally we're initiating a multifaceted supply chain optimization project to reduce our costs of raw materials and logistics.
Now in the fourth quarter we already took several actions in regards to our footprint and cost structure.
In North America we announced the closure of the Malvern Arkansas plant one of our electric utility facilities which will be consolidated into existing facilities.
To be clear Malvern wasn't performing poorly.
In fact the plant has performed well and we have good people there.
However this difficult decision moves us in the direction of a more competitive scale and cost position.
We are very committed to the North American utility market and we have leading market position.
We'll continue to produce our utility products at our other plants but we'll be doing it more efficiently in the future.
We also took incremental actions to enhance scale and drive further efficiencies of our Lawrenceburg communication facility which involved relocating assets from Brazil and from Franklin Massachusetts.
In Latin America we announced further consolidation in Central America with the planned shutdown of operations in Honduras as the facility lacks the scale necessary to obtain a leading cost position.
This action builds on the previously announced consolidation actions in both Brazil and Colombia.
And in Europe we announced workforce and other cost reductions in Germany and workforce reductions and further rationalization of low-value products in France.
Clearly we'll only comment on actions that have already been communicated within the company.
Our end goal is to achieve scale a leading cost and efficiency position and a more nimble streamlined company.
These actions are the first steps in the new roadmap.
We look forward to discussing these initiatives further at our Investor Day in March.
A few thoughts on our performance culture initiatives.
It's very important to increase the motivation engagement and alignment of our associates and foster a spirited culture performance centered on the highest ethical and compliance standards.
At General Cable our people are the foundation of all that we do.
We're focused on cultivating a culture where our people feel a strong sense of purpose ownership and accountability.
We're also working to ensure objectives and incentives are fully aligned and can really make a difference.
In the end in any business it all comes down to people working together to get the right things done.
We're going about this in a unique way and we look forward to sharing this with you in March.
At our Investor Day in March we'll provide you with a clear and transparent set of metrics and targets that will help you understand the timing and magnitude of the improvement we are targeting with the roadmap and the progress we're making.
We've already talked about our target operating margin goal of 7% and we'll provide additional metrics and targets next month.
As I spend more time here with the company and our people I get more and more enthusiastic and confident about the opportunity we have.
We've experienced a very difficult set of challenges over the past few years.
We're battle-hardened.
We're getting things done cleaning up past issues and now starting to execute on a plan that will transform the company and its performance level.
I appreciate the commitment and hard work of the people here at General Cable and I am making it a priority to earn their trust and loyalty.
Turning to a brief summary of Q4.
You know we've been putting a lot of energy into completing our strategic roadmap and accelerating these early actions from that roadmap.
We're also very focused on the quarter and on executing properly in what has continued to be a very challenging environment.
As you can see from today's results our results are once again in line with our guidance.
We delivered $10 million of restructuring savings in the quarter which offset the majority of widespread volume weakness experienced in the quarter versus prior year.
And we also experienced an unfavorable $8 million impact from the decline of metal prices during the quarter as well.
Recall that metals by the way are typically a pass-through cost but we're affected in approximately half our business by changes in metal price between the time we buy the metal and the time we sell the cable made with the metal which can typically average around three months.
Certainly we're not satisfied with our performance in the quarter but given the challenging macroeconomic environment in which we operate and continued weakness in demand in our end markets we believe that the strategy we have in place is the right one and we're executing against it well.
With respect to the first quarter we expect sequentially stable to improved volumes and further benefits from restructuring and business improvement initiatives partially offset by unfavorable metal price impact and significantly easing performance now of our submarine turnkey business.
Visibility is low but we're encouraged by the resilience in our utility nonresidential construction and communications end markets even while industrial and oil and gas end markets may soften a bit further.
It's a challenging environment but I'm excited that we now have a strategic roadmap for our path forward and we're relentlessly focused on execution.
Overall we believe we're heading in the right direction and clearly there's a lot more to be done.
However I'm confident we can do it and in doing so deliver value to our shareholders.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian to review our fourth quarter results in more detail.
Brian? Thank you Mike.
On slide eight unit volume was down 21% year-over-year which is principally due to lower end market demand across the North American portfolio including industrial and specialty cables continued pressure on end market demand throughout Latin America and the exit from certain low value-add markets in Europe.
Sequentially unit volume was down 8% as seasonal demand and weak industrial specialty and electric utility cable shipments were partially offset by stability in Europe and Latin America which benefited from stronger aerial transmission product shipments in Brazil.
Adjusted operating income of $28 million reflects restructuring savings of $10 million unfavorable metal costs impact of approximately $8 million the impact of lower unit volume in North America and lower project activity in the subsea power business in Europe as the company has substantially completed its multi-year Baltic 2 project.
On slide nine in North America adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter of $22 million declined 33% sequentially and 31% year-over-year principally due to the impact of selling higher average cost inventory into a lower metal cost environment and the impact of lower demand for industrial and specialty cables particularly for products tied to oil and gas applications and electric utility cables.
Despite the sluggish finish to the year our communication and electric utility businesses which benefit from stronger demand throughout the first nine months of the year delivered year-over-year adjusted operating income improvement for 2015 of 38% and 34% respectively.
Overall demand for 2015 was down 2% versus 2014 primarily due to demand for industrial and specialty cables particularly those tied to oil and gas applications.
Demand for communications and electric utility cables was stable year-over-year.
Our communications businesses continue to drive sales for higher value-add products included Cat 6 and Cat 6A as well as specialty and premise fiber.
In our electric utility business our ability to capture transmission and distribution projects for grid expansion and reinforcement through the first nine months of the year offset the sluggish finish to the year as utility order rates declined.
We are monitoring order patterns very closely and we are encouraged with the solid pace of shipments and bookings through the first month of the year.
On slide 10 in Europe adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter of $6 million decreased $10 million sequentially and was flat year-over-year which principally reflects lower activity in the company's subsea power cable business as the Baltic 2 project winds down.
For 2015 we generated $48 million of adjusted operating income in Europe which is four times the adjusted operating income generated in 2014.
This improvement reflects the strong production contract service and installation activity in the submarine turnkey project business as well as the benefit of restructuring actions.
Our project backlog including both subsea and land was $190 million U.S.
dollars at the end of the fourth quarter.
End market demand in Western Europe for electric utility cables including land and subsea projects was stable during the fourth quarter which helped to offset lower demand for industrial and construction related products.
Reported revenue for 2015 includes the impact of $219 million of unfavorable foreign currency movements due to the stronger U.S.
dollar.
On slide 11 despite the challenging macro environment in Latin America marked by volatile currencies and low commodity prices weak construction spending and slowing growth rates we're continuing to implement our restructuring actions to drive savings and improve our operational execution.
Our team in Brazil continues to capture meaningful aerial transmission projects driving unit volume growth in the transmission business up 9% year-over-year.
In Colombia we have generated a notable improvement year-over-year due to our restructuring initiatives which have been focused on the factory floor.
As we have summarized in slide 13 we remain focused on executing our plan to simplify our portfolio reduce operational complexity and deliver improved returns in North America Latin American and Europe.
We are pleased with the execution and the continued positive momentum we've achieved since announcing the divestiture program.
In total we have generated $176 million of cash proceeds and continue to target cash proceeds in the range of $250 million to $300 million.
We're pleased with the continued momentum as we've just signed a definitive purchase agreement to sell our interest in our operations in Zambia which is expected to close later this year.
We are managing an active process and pressing forward with the divestitures of our remaining operations in Africa including Algeria Egypt and Angola and Asia-Pacific including China New Zealand Australia and India.
Next on our Restructuring program we are substantially complete with our July 2014 program.
In the fourth quarter we generated $10 million of savings and achieved our 2015 target generating $36 million of savings for the full year of 2015.
We continue to target $80 million to $100 million of annual savings and are on track to realize the needed $40 million to $50 million of incremental savings in 2016 to achieve our target.
As Mike discussed earlier we are executing and accelerating our actions moving forward under the company's new strategic road map.
As a result we've announced additional restructuring actions in the fourth quarter and incurred approximately $9 million of related costs in the quarter.
These announced actions are focused on cost reduction and efficiency within our core end markets in North America Europe and Latin America.
Together these actions are expected to generate annual savings of $10 million to $15 million at a total cost of approximately $30 million.
We have provided some detail in our presentation on these actions but I wanted to briefly comment on the initiatives in North America.
This is an important step in our strategic plans.
We focus on driving improvement in two of our largest businesses in North America where we have scale and important market positions.
We announced the consolidation of another one of our electric utility plants and enhancement of our capabilities at one of our flagship facilities in our communications business.
These actions in North America are expected to deliver about half the target savings for these incremental initiatives under our new strategic road map.
On slide 15 we provide a summary of our debt maturity profile position as of the fourth quarter.
Net debt of $999 million was down $220 million from the end of 2014 and $15 million from the third quarter due to the continued tight management of working capital and cash proceeds generated from divestures.
We currently have $347 million of availability under our North American and European-based credit facility.
In addition we have approximately $88 million of availability on working capital lines and cash in our Latin American businesses.
We are well positioned to fund the business including working capital requirements restructuring activities and quarterly dividends.
Finally I'm pleased to report that we have now substantially completed our internal investigations related to our previously disclosed FCPA matters.
Based on the findings of our internal review we've increased our existing accrual of $24 million by an incremental $4 million.
This accrual represents our estimate of the profit derived from certain transactions identified during our investigation that we believe is probable to be disgorged in connection with any future resolution with the government.
In the course of our investigation we also identified certain other transactions that may raise concerns under the FCPA for which it is at least reasonably possible we may be required to disgorge certain profits.
The range of additional possible profit disgorgement is from zero to $33 million.
These amounts do not include any possible fines civil or criminal penalties.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I'll now turn the call back over to the operator who will assist us in taking your questions.
Operator? Your first question comes from the line of Gausia Chowdhury.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
This is Gausia calling on behalf of Shawn Harrison.
I was just wondering if you can give some color on volume expectations per region for the quarter and potentially for the year as well? Specifically the utility business was pretty good for 2015.
You saw some weakness in North America on the fourth quarter.
So given some comments about utility spending for 2016 is the strength tied to certain region as well? If you could provide some color that'd be helpful.
Yeah let me just run through the regions very briefly beginning with North America maybe start there and then the utility business.
We had a relatively strong 2015 for the first nine months.
The last three months we saw some pullback related I think to end-of-year.
I think a lot of fourth quarter was related to end-of-year tightening of the supply chain reduction of inventories and so forth but we're pretty encouraged by what we're seeing right now in utility sort of bouncing back a bit and getting back into line with where it had been in the last year maybe even a bit more in North America.
I think we're also encouraged by the Communication business in North America and the continued growth there.
So I think those two are very solid.
I think also with respect to the businesses that are tied to non-residential construction I think those are solid and we have a lot of optimism about that.
On the other side of course industrial has slowed in the second half of last year and particularly in the fourth quarter and that may soften a bit further particularly in the projects side of industrial.
And of course oil gas and mining have been declining throughout 2015.
We think that they're probably near the bottom there but there might be a little bit of softness there.
So overall in North America a mixed bag but we're pretty encouraged with what we're seeing right now.
We think that the fourth quarter a lot of that softness was created by people being concerned a lack of visibility.
But I think first quarter is  we're encouraged by what we're seeing and we think the first quarter will be in line with our guidance.
And beyond that it's really hard to tell so I don't think anybody can but that at least give you a sense that I'm a lot happier right now than I was in the fourth quarter.
Moving over to Europe briefly.
There we're also seeing some sequential improvement from the fourth quarter in Europe.
Europe has been steady for the last few quarters.
And if I just break into two particular countries in Spain Iberia we're seeing probably some 2% to 3% growth coming into the first quarter.
We think that's likely to continue through the rest of the year.
And France is a bit sideways but we have some things in France that were connected to high voltage and also the fiber business there that we think will give us a little bit of lift there in Europe as well.
So Europe's stable and net-net increasing a bit as we move forward.
Latin America actually improved a little bit in the fourth quarter sequentially and we think that there's a lot of uncertainty around where that's going to go.
It might be a little bit stronger it might be a little bit softer.
But we've done a lot of work in our Latin American businesses over the last year and we're poised  I would say my hope is that we can beat the market by a little bit in terms of volume growth in Latin America as we move in through Q1 and then the rest of the year.
So that gives you a bit of a summary of how we're seeing things at this point in time.
Perfect.
Very helpful.
Thank you.
And then with regards to the restructuring can you clarify that $10 million to $15 million that's incremental or in addition to the $80 million to $100 million right? So just if you can give us the total new estimate versus the old estimate just so we're clear on that? Yes that's right.
So the original let's call it the original program the July 2014 program has a range of $80 million to $100 million range.
And that's right this $10 million to $15 million is incremental to that $80 million to $100 million program.
That's exactly right.
And we haven't and as we said in the comments that's as much as we're prepared to say about the actions we're taking now and in the Investor Day next month our intention is to provide a much broader perspective around our future actions.
Okay great.
I'll hop back into queue.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Noelle Dilts from Stifel.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Noelle.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> First just wanted to get a sense of in your first quarter guidance how are you thinking about the potential headwind from metals as we move into the quarter? So we actually put a number out there of $8 million unfavorable in the first quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Perfect.
Sorry.
Thanks.
I'm on the road.
And one of the things we're trying to do is in these calls is become even more transparent around how metals are affecting our business and how the underlying business is actually performing...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
...besides he metals impact.
Just to give you a little bit more insight into what's happening here at General Cable.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Secondly could you talk  just circling back around North American Utility  can you just talk about a little bit what you're expecting in terms of lower voltage distribution versus the timing of some of that transmission work this year? I think our  well I think from a market standpoint we're looking at transmission as solid this year and steady.
Distribution we have more optimism on in terms of some low-single to mid-single digit growth there.
But the timing of these things is always hard to predict.
So I'm giving you sort of a view as we move into the New Year but it's really hard to parse that out.
I think overall it's a solid business for us and I think flat to up low-single digits is how we're looking at it this year.
And a big part of that for us not a big part but an important part is the renewable side.
Wind is strong solar is solid.
So that's all part of that too.
And with the renewals now on the tax credits and so forth I think we're going to have a solid year here.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay perfect.
And then lastly could you give us some thoughts just at this point on the dividend? It's obviously a pretty high percentage of at least what folks are forecasting for the year in terms of your earnings.
So can you just talk a little bit about how you're thinking about that? Yeah.
Hi Noelle.
It's Brian.
Yeah I mean the dividend is something we always consider relative to other capital allocations.
And we think about how we want to grow certain important strategic elements of our business.
So at this point we're supporting the dividend and as we've been saying at the Investor Conference next week we'll have a capital allocation strategy that will line up with our overall strategy.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
You're welcome.
You're welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thielman from D.A.
Davidson.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Brent.
Hi Brent.
Mike or Brian with the additional accruals for the investigations are your internal investigations still ongoing or does this substantially wrap up your end of things and now it's kind of up to the DOJ to complete theirs? I know you can't comment on timing but just try and understand kind of what's next here.
Yeah it's more of the latter Brent.
We're pleased to be able to report that consistent with what we've been saying we've completed substantially completed our work and as we've also been saying that we're cooperating very closely with the government so now we're into that phase.
Okay great.
And Mike now that you've been here a little while I guess I'm curious kind of what you see now within the company that you feel like the company hasn't been fully leveraging whether that's particular product lines or business units or kind of go-to-market strategies.
Any thoughts there? Yeah well as we've been talking about on our travels to see our investors and on these calls and so forth we've taken a significant strategy shift in the company and with that opens always new opportunities and our shift has been as you've seen toward focusing on where we're strong now.
And the core businesses the core markets and so forth and I mentioned communications industrial utility and whenever you do that you see new opportunities that maybe weren't visible before because you were focused on other things geographic expansion for example.
And so every time you look at something differently and with my fresh eyes that's helped a bit but the team was already on a lot of this stuff and way ahead of anyone else in terms of seeing these opportunities.
So I think that if you look at how we're focusing on our strengths now how we're getting very very clear about operational excellence and taking the next steps in that developing our culture really inspiring our people et cetera towards a new strategy I think you'll see good things from that.
And in particular I'm most excited about this strategic roadmap.
Six months ago coming in we started working on this but it was still a bit aspirational.
Our 7% target was aspirational I mean we felt in our gut we could do it now we have a plan that shows we can do it and that plan that we're excited to lay out in March when you come and hear us and interact with us in March you'll get a much better sense about where we see opportunity now and what we're driving hard for.
But there's a lot of opportunity here.
I think you've heard me say that consistently a lot of opportunity.
Okay.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Gausia Chowdhury.
Go ahead.
From Longbow Research.
Go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Can you give us what the operating cash flow and CapEx was for the fourth quarter? And then just how we should think about CapEx for 2016 please? The operating cash flow we had disclosed at around $96 million from our core operations and then the CapEx for the quarter was right around $13 million for Q4.
As we look forward to 2016 we estimate the CapEx in the range of $75 million which includes obviously meaningful element of maintenance but also some selected investments around some of our as we said strategically important future initiatives.
Perfect.
And the last one for me is just how should we think about tax for the year as well? I think 40% is what we had before.
Yeah.
It's 40% for 2015.
For 2016 on an ETR basis we're using 50% which is higher than we had anticipated for a number of reasons but one of the bigger reasons is we anticipated I'd say a broader diversity of earnings as we move forward which would have allowed us to use some loss carry-forwards.
But the short answer is 50% and on a cash basis we're closer to about 20%.
So a meaningful difference there between the ETR and the cash rate.
Okay.
And would you be able to disclose that Zambia asset in terms of how big it was in terms of sales? Do you have that? Yeah.
What I would tell you is that the proceeds are  we expect the proceeds to be approximately $20 million.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
You're welcome.
There are no further questions at this time.
I turn the call back over to the presenters.
Finance Investor Relations</strong> Thank you for joining us this morning.
That concludes our conference call.
A replay of this call will be available on our website later today.
We appreciate your continued interest in General Cable.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.